It's not not for any of us to understand
the world and how the world works.
It just is
[music]
It's October of 1962, the heart of the
Cold War.
Images from an American U2 revealed that
the Soviet Union had secretly begun
building missile bases in Cuba, just 90
m off the coast of Florida.
Strategic Air Command was placed in
Defcon 2, the only time that's ever
happened in the history of the United
States. Kruev and Kennedy both had top
military strategists pushing them to
draw first blood.
We are asking tonight that an emergency
meeting of the Security Council be
convoked without delay.
Curtis Lameé, head of the Strategic Air
Command of the Air Force, wanted to deal
a death blow to the Soviets. Amidst this
tense backdrop, Secretary of Defense
Robert McNamera called one of his top
aids, a 27-year-old whiz kid named
Harold Malgrren into the situation room.
Don't tell them what you think should
happen. Ask them a lot of questions.
Your job is to slow them down. reduce
the heat in the room and give us time to
work something out.
Miraculously, the Hail Mary worked.
Harold, the youngest man in the
situation room, ran circles around one
of the most aggressive fourstar generals
in American history. And if I remember
correctly, you kind of rhetorically back
them into a corner where you say, "What
would be your prime target first?"
Yeah. I said, "It's madness. If you hit
Moscow, there's no one to talk to."
And then that's at that point, right,
Lame storms out.
Yeah. No, he he literally got up and
slammed his papers down.
I can't I'm not going I'm I I refuse to
run with this.
Malgrim went on to become a top
presidential adviser for JFK, LBJ,
Nixon, and Ford. And the fact that he
neutralized Lame and saved the world is
the least interesting thing I'll be
discussing with him. You've been
dropping bombs on [music] the internet,
saying some amazing things.
JFK fully knew all about UFOs long
before he became president.
Harold had been tweeting things that if
taken at all seriously alongside his
credentials and background would
wholesale overturn your worldview.
No, he said Hamlet. These are things
that have come down. So, you're looking
at like material, anomalous material.
Yeah.
Debris. Yeah.
This interview changed my life forever
and will hopefully do the same for you.
In it, Harold admits to directly
handling UFO material that fell out of
the plume of a Marshall Islands nuclear
test. This is world history. It's the
first time anybody of this caliber has
ever admitted to handling UFO material
directly.
What did it feel like?
It felt weird enough because it didn't
feel anything.
He discusses getting briefed [music] on
other world technologies by deputy
director of plans for the CIA and chief
architect of Area 51, Richard [music]
Bissell. Malmgrim tells me that Bissell
confirmed to him the existence of the
magenta UFO crash of 1933 in Italy
recently reported on by UFO
whistleblower David Grush.
He did.
Yes.
Richard Bissell mentioned the 1933
magenta crash.
Yes,
that's amazing.
If that's not enough, Malgrim also
implies that he was being tracked by the
majestic 12 from a young age. Your name
written in all the important books of
talent
keeps not only CI but you know all the
majestic all these guardians they they
also themselves to protect the world.
The Majestic 12 is an elite group of
military science and government advisers
governing the UFO issue that were
described in document leaks in the 80s
and '90s. But this is the first time
anybody of this caliber has ever
mentioned that name. You have uncovered
collaboration between Nola Tesla and
Thomas Towns and Brown. What source did
you get it from?
Intelligence.
We get into the Chinese science fiction
novel, The Threebody Problem, which
Harold believes may be the best model we
have for the UFO story.
It's not just the atomic connection.
They're generically attracted to the tip
of the spear [music] as far as tech
development.
at the heart of it.
Yeah,
Harold's daughter Pippa would know that
she was special assistant to President
Bush and on his national economic
council. It's now public knowledge
through Hal Putoff that George W. Bush
contemplated UFO disclosure with his
national security adviser Steven Hadley.
As Pippa relayed to me, a lot of these
high-level disclosure discussions
revolved around one particular book, a
Chinese science fiction novel called The
Threebody Problem, which became
mandatory reading among many highlevel
national security advisers in the United
States.
Then to fast forward, spending time with
my own father.
Yes. [music]
And discovering that he's been involved
with this from the earliest days.
Finally, we discuss secret science going
on at sensitive department of energy
sites across the country. Alan Dulles,
the director of the CIA, the Italian
mob, secret societies, the JFK
assassination, and how all of these
might relate to UFOs.
The relationship needs to be uncovered
between Angleton's [music]
father, Angleton, and the Knights of
Bal.
Wow. Do you think that UFOs played any
sort of part in JFK's death?
Do I think so? Yes.
I think it was probably the number one
issue.
In many ways, Malmgrren was sort of a
Forest Gump of global elite politics.
Be looked for me, found me in the crowd,
brought me over, and he introduced me to
Putin. Now, I knew enough to realize
that that was not an accidental meeting.
It became clear to me in the midst of
this interview that Harold was part of a
much deeper intelligence network that we
barely scratched the surface on.
You are now part of a network of [music]
people. It will be known that you've
been blessed. If I had a choice, I would
have spent weeks with Harold going deep
on his vast knowledge of UFOs, deep
politics, and global power structures.
Unfortunately, a day after our
interview, we had to rush him to the
hospital. That hospital visit ended up
lasting a few weeks, culminating in his
tragic passing.
But when I was back in Austin, Harold
insisted on speaking to me on the phone
to follow up.
His vitals on the cusp of failure. Just
3 days before his death, he revealed
even more to me. Things that will make
you further question your reality.
If you ask me, did I have a purpose?
Yes.
In this final courageous interview,
Harold Malmgrren transcends his earthly
oaths and adheres to a higher godly
principle in one final act of service to
humanity. One that may end up being just
as consequential as saving the [music]
Earth from nuclear catastrophe. Without
further ado, please welcome this week's
American Alchemist. May he rest in
peace. Presidential adviser and
international peacekeeper, the Honorable
Harold Malmgrren.
Hello
Harold. It's Jesse.
Oh, hi Jesse. How are you?
Good man. I'm How are you is the more
important question. You scared me last
week.
I'm having to explain
step by step
who I am, how I happen to be here. And
each person says, "Oh, I didn't know
that.
Well, I I'm flanked by greatness and and
and just honored to be here. Uh I'm here
with Dr. Harold Malgrim, who was a
presidential adviser to four different
presidents, [music]
uh JFK, LBJ, Nixon, and Ford, among
various other amazing accolades. You
helped stop uh a couple of global
crises, and we're going to get into
that. Um, but I think for the purposes
of this conversation, you've been uh
dropping bombs on the internet and
really saying some amazing things that
deal with the nature of reality,
non-human intelligence, UFOs, or as
they're commonly referred to now, UAPs,
[music] and informal briefs that you've
gotten on the subject. And so, I
couldn't be more excited to be speaking
with you now about all this. And we also
have Dr. Pipla Malgrim who is equally
amazing and she [music]
uh was a special assistant to George W.
Bush on his national economic council.
She's written a few great books. I
recommend you you all check them out and
uh she's going to be joining us for this
conversation as well. So I'm honored to
be here with both [music] of you guys.
Thank you so much for having us.
Absolutely.
Well, I'm I'm honored because I've
watched your work
um with several people and you you've
done an amazing job. the the most one
stuck in my mind is your interview with
Matthew Pines.
Well, that that means so much. Matthew
Pines makes it easy. He's one of the
smartest people I've met and has a
really interdisciplinary
understanding. He can go from physics
I'm not a practicing physicist. It's not
my job. But I'm trying to like
familiarize myself with Garrett Les
stuff with Sabina's stuff, Wolf and
Jonathan Gard,
but he can also understand the minutia
of Washington and how it works.
Yeah, that's why I like him. Yeah,
[laughter]
he's unusual.
He is very unusual. Um, so you ended up
uh known as one of Robert McNamera's
whiz kids, quote unquote, and uh just
this kind of child prodigy, but you grew
up on the other side of the tracks. And
so uh I'd love to hear just a little bit
about your childhood. Well, I was born
up born in the middle of the Great
Depression
and um my mother and father were
immigrants from Sweden. We lived right
by Naragans at Bay just off the Atlantic
when I was just turning seven. My mother
said, "Well, this is the day you have to
start working. So when you come home
from school
down of the water and bring home dinner
rationing at that time, meat rationing.
So I learned to use a boat, learn to
fish, learn to get crab traps. They even
had lobster traps,
dig up shellfish. So every day brought
home something. It became second nation.
Sometimes I had to stop and pick up an
ice big piece of ice because we didn't
have refrigerators. Completely heavy.
[laughter]
I was still little. Anyway, when I was
13 going on 14 was before my 14th
birthday.
My father was had found work as a
restoration specialist and we restored
old mansions
in Newport
around Boston, particularly near
Cambridge.
We were working on this big house. He
said, "Can you help me? It's a summer."
And so I was working with steel wool and
and some kind of
solution to clear walnut panels.
And this big gentleman came in the room
and said, "Hello, young man. What are
you doing?" Yeah, I'm
helping my my dad. He said, "Sit down
and talk to me."
And that was a little bit unusual. Why
Why does he want to talk to me?
Anyway, we talked
about what are you doing at school? What
are you learning about? Two hours later,
my father and said, "I want to take this
boy out of your school. I want to come
in September and metriculate in MIT
and um we'll give him a full scholarship
all four years.
I'm not sure he needs the full four
years. We give him all the years he
needs. We'll give him internship.
You don't have to worry about summers.
And if all goes, well,
we'll take him all the way to graduate
school.
I said, well, wait a minute. I'm not
ready to leave home.
And he said,
listen to me. I'm really offering you a
whole new life. He said, "Yeah, but I
like my lunch."
But Carl come to he said he was
president of MIT.
And I didn't know then the whole history
of the large role he played in the
Second World War.
I think he was in charge of the war
production board at some point.
So this was Carl Compton who was the
sitting president of MIT which allowed
him uh he had the power to offer you a
full ride.
Power to do that. Yeah.
So
we ended up friendly,
but
he said you talked about things that at
the very frontier of physics
and you
at at 13 or 14.
Yeah. He said you stunned me because you
brought up what is a photon? Why don't
we understand it? Why we had a picture
of it?
Uhhuh.
We have a picture of everything else. No
photon. I said I thought about it and
thought about it. I didn't know
Einstein's dilemma. I just
So I said it's something that operates
in interaction with something else.
Probably another photon and probably
it's in pulses and probably there
doesn't matter how far apart.
It's just that interaction but you can't
get a picture of it because those pulses
are so too fast.
and just two different things. Probably
it's more than two, probably as many
and that's the problem that you're
trying to get at something specific when
it's not specific.
And he said, "No, it's not that."
So you don't understand. You you have an
inventive mind. You see beyond what the
biggest minds I said yes, but I'm not
ready to go home and leave home.
Malmgrim displayed knowledge of physics
concepts with Compton that he wasn't
supposed to. Not only because he was too
young to know these concepts, but
because they hadn't even been proven
experimentally yet. Entangled
photons are considered a single system
in quantum mechanics, meaning that even
when separated by large distances, they
instantly affect each other's states,
essentially acting as a single unit.
They also conserve quantum properties
with respect to one another. This is now
commonplace knowledge, but Malgrim was
saying this at the age of 14 in 1950.
And while entanglement as a concept was
predicted by Einstein and his colleagues
in 1935, [music] the treatment of
entangled photons as a system was only
made explicit in the 60s and 70s with
Bell's inequality theorem and with the
measurements of physicist John Clauser.
So how did young Malgrim understand this
concept at 14 as a poor painter's son?
There's a bit of a backstory and part of
my job in the interview is just to pull
out some of this background that led to
my father's extraordinary career. But
the key was before you met Carl Compton,
you'd written to the Atomic Energy
Agency asking for background on nuclear
physics. So you'd at that age already
read an immense amount.
Can we show some of that correspondence?
Yeah.
Do we have the This is amazing.
This here the the control of atomic
energy. So this is what they sent back.
Yeah. Not only that you [clears throat]
genetic effects of atomic bombs in
Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
See that's really interesting. They were
they were really interested in the the
genetic stuff. And you have delevation,
but he was also president of John's
Hopkins who is rumored to be on this
quote unquote majestic 12 and do
autopsies on non-human intelligence
bodies. And so, and then you had all
these studies going on at the time, like
the um uh Cambridge Labs where you had
the Polaroid founder and a bunch of
these guys studying human genetics with
respect to radiation. And Annie Jacobson
has uncovered a lot about Area 51 where
they were doing a lot of, you know,
human genetic experimentation, visav
radiation as well.
And again, some of these photographs are
quite extraordinary. And when I came
across them in dad's old files, I'm
like, "What the heck are these?"
Wow.
And they're from the Atomic Energy
Commission, and they're photographs of
Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
These are Geiger counters. Is that
right? You were telling me last night.
This is Hiroshima. Credit US Air Force.
Wow.
This is amazing.
So that's why he knew a lot at that age.
And Carl Compton starts to register the
president of MIT that he's got this kid
who's basically holding the paint bucket
for his dad and he knows a lot about
photons.
Uh and so I think that's where this
began. He was identified at a very early
age.
Yes.
As someone with a very particular
proclivity.
Yeah.
And then fast forward because you know I
looked at my dad's career. I look back
and I'm like, how the heck did you end
up at age 27 being the joint liaison
between the joint chiefs and the
president of the United States, National
Security Council under Bob McNamera and
JFK just as the Cuban missile crisis at
beginning
and you know dad has an amazing story to
tell about what it was like to be in
that room
as the decisions were being made
and he played a really critical part in
preventing a nuclear catastrophe.
That's so amazing.
Which is a story I think you should.
Yeah. I can't wait to hear. But clearly
you had been tracked at a young age. I
mean, this is a letter that you're
receiving from Oakidge National Labs and
it's atomic bomb engineering. So, it's
clear that they are like, "Okay, here's
this whiz kid. Let's give him a limited
information set. See what he can do with
it and maybe have some sort of
initiation path." how you almost, you
know, serendipitously and miraculously
wind up at Carl Compton's house holding
a paint bucket. I don't quite know. I
don't can't explain that.
[music]
Who is this Carl Compton? Well, he
served as the president of MIT from 1930
to 1948. During that time, he also
served on Franklin Delano Roosevelt's
[music] National Defense Research
Council and worked closely with Vanavar
Bush on federally funded scientific
research for the promotion of American
military supremacy. At MIT, Compton was
heavily involved in the famous RAD lab
and its [music] development of American
radar. His top technical aid was John
Trump. If you recognize that name, it's
because John Trump is the late uncle of
our current sitting president, Donald
Trump. And John Trump was charged with
investigating Tesla's files that were
confiscated by the FBI to see if they'd
confer any tactical warfare advantages
to the United States. One of Trump's
last interviews was also featured in a
documentary on Thomas [music] Towns and
Brown's Philadelphia experiment. But I
was particularly looking for something
which would uh dis be evidence of a
secret weapon which was a matter of
concern to the United States.
But I digress. For the purposes of this
conversation with Harold, Carl Compton
pops up in UFO history twice. First, you
have Robert Sarbacher, former head of
Washington National Labs, also one of
America's premier nuclear scientists.
Sarbacher is famously on record saying
that UFO secrecy is classified at two
levels higher than the hydrogen bomb.
But Sarbacher also told nuclear engineer
and UFO researcher Stanton Freriedman
that none other than MIT President Carl
[music] Compton was briefed on UFO
technology at Wright Airfield in 1950.
But there are more UFO touch points for
[music] Compton. Another researcher in
California named William Steinman had
been corresponding with Fred Darwin, the
former executive director of the guided
missile committee for the DoD's R&D
board from 1949 to 1954.
Darwin listed these names as involved in
a special committee on flying [music]
saucers at the highest level. Dr.
Vanavar Bush, Dr. Lloyd Burkner, Dr.
Robert F. Reinhardt, Dr. [music] Eric A.
Walker, Dr. John von Noman and one Dr.
Carl T. Compton.
Finally, when government transparency
researcher John Greenwald used the
Freedom of Information Act to retrieve
Compton's records, he received a reply
back in April of 2014. Quote unquote,
records which may [music] have been
responsive to your request were
destroyed August 30th, 2006.
Why [music] would the FBI destroy a file
on an innocent university professor? And
why would they have a file on him in the
first place? Those are good questions.
And how did little Harold Malgrim
somehow end up holding a paint bucket at
Carl Compton's house a couple of years
after Harold had written to the Atomic
Energy Commission wanting to learn more
about the American nuclear program? That
might be an even better question.
Well, and he had gone on to work with
Tom Shelling who was father of game
theory. Yes. Application to conflict
resolution across many different things
but nuclear. Um and working with many
Nobel Prize winners including Sir John
Hicks at Oxford. Um, and so I think when
Kennedy came in, he knew some of the
Nobel Prize winners and he asked them,
"Who's your brightest kid?"
And dad's name just kept showing up on
the list.
It's fascinating. So then, okay, what
what happens? So you're recognized by
Carl Compton. You have this
correspondence with the Atomic Energy
Commission. How do you end up from that
situation to the situation room during
the Cuban missile crisis as you the
youngest person in the room?
Yeah, I'm still trying to reconstruct
how that [laughter] happened.
Yeah, I was still a good athlete and a
really top student. I was ranked
as first along with another person who
later became chief justice of the
Arkansas State Supreme Court. I had
moved from physics to economics because
I thought I have my parents need help
and I get older. I need to do something
makes money. Economics sounds like
money.
So I got a grant from Yale to go to go
somewhere and I wanted to go to Oxford
as a dream
and um I went there really fell in love
with it.
Um I didn't really study anything
specific. I went to everything.
Mhm. And um and then I met a lady there
who was American and as those things
happened um got pretty attached
and I came back from after my one year
grant to Harvard
and um after I was partly way through
the first term,
Mc George Bundy who was then dean had me
and he and and we hear you taking you to
leave again to go back to Oxford, but we
want to offer you something special.
We'll give you three years
all expenses including summer
and all you got to do is write a book.
You don't have to attend any classes. If
you write the book, we'll almost
certainly publish it and that will be
your PhD. And this is at Harvard.
Yeah. So
that's a great deal.
Yeah. He said it's a great he said a
great deal and I said yeah but my brain
was somewhat clouded by this girl.
[laughter]
But um also Oxford offered me they said
just come here but we'll take care of
you. You can do your PhD here. And um so
I did that
married that girl was mother
and um you there's always an element of
frailty
um in unexpected ways in particular
among males.
But at Arford,
Sir John Hooks decided well he and his
wife invited me to dinner and she
explained she was a public finance
expert. So she decided explained to me
her husband felt I was an original
thinker and that they only come along
once every 25, 30, 40 years. She said at
Yale
you you went deep into mathematical
economics.
So I told
my husband that you got to convince this
young man to just dump all that
mathematics
in a storage shed and start working
more fundamentally at behavioral
economics.
And um he did I remember the first paper
I gave him
was really a moment of insight.
I gave this paper nine pages roughly
full of math
and he said this looks very interesting.
Come back next week after I've read it.
Come back next week. He said don't sit
here in the student reception room. Come
into my inner chambers.
sit down here by the fire. I thought,
"Is this bad or good?"
And I began to inflate. He really thinks
I'm good. He said, "But you know, it
took me an entire week to find it out."
How many people of my caliber do you
think in your lifetime are going to
spend three or four days of your time of
their time trying to understand you? He
said, "I think this is not the way to
make progress."
[laughter]
So he said, "It's near the end of term.
I want you to go get a hold of his big
amount of given decline and fall, which
is in several volumes, and read
everything you can before
the vacation period is over."
Decline and fall of around.
Yeah, I g.
So I came back. He said, "What have you
learned?" I said, "Well, I only got to
something chapter, whatever." And he
said, "That's not bad."
The reason I wanted you to read that a
dead run is because you have to know how
it was written.
Given didn't
do it brick by brick. He wrote it at a
dead run
from his mind
and said, "You got to learn to do that.
You have plenty to say. You know how to
say it. So write it that way.
Don't stop to see if you can fit it into
some model."
And um
so we had a marvelous experience. And
then soon afterwards
he said the people you should meet. So
some of the best people at Cambridge
came to see me famous names. And then he
said um hire
I persuaded him to come to Oxford and
meet you.
So he came I spent time with him.
For me it was big. I knew who he was. It
was very impressive.
And then on another occasion,
there had been a big debate
in the 19
20s going to the 30s between Luding
Manus
on behalf of the Austrian capitalism
economist and communist central
planners.
The opposite from one was Oscar Langer.
Oscar Lang came to Oxford.
They have dinner with me. We had a
fight.
Mhm.
I said centralization automatically
degrades itself because you restricts
everybody from innovation, adaptation.
Once you do that, there's no change.
So you would be more on the Austrian
school side.
Yeah. Yes. Okay. I I am too.
Yeah. Well,
although I'm far inferior economics,
I'm still at the same I'm totally
convinced that China will collapse
because of over centralization.
Anyway,
um by the way, in the 1980s, I was in
China for some kind of a SRI
meeting,
Stanford Research Institute. Yeah.
And they invited me along and the senior
Chinese very interesting this is years
later say can we have dinner with you
alone?
Well okay why not?
So three of the most senior economic
officials
we had long
we know about your work on
centralization.
Really? How do you know about? We had
your thesis translated
and we talked to
Australia and some other people.
We had an argument. I said over
centralization will be will bring you
destruction. It's impossible.
It's too big to manage.
Anyway,
so going back to Oxford,
I finished up there
and there was a bidding war like an NBA
or national football bidding
graduates.
So MIT and Stanford and Harvard and some
others Princeton offered me a post and
Cornell said we'll trump the others.
We'll offer you a a new chair
just endowed now. So you will you can
bypass the normal process of several
years from assistant professor,
associate professor. eventually you can
start
at the top. So I said okay I'll I accept
and I came to
Cornell
with Pipper's mother. Pipper was born in
May of that year and um we were living
in the house of
Labacov the Russian author.
Wow. He was on leave and I leased from
him
in Ithaca, New York.
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah. It was an adventure
and he was something impressive.
I mean all these fortunate developments
happened in my life.
By the way, these also became clues for
me later
because I realized Nabokov was
um
said to be a CIA asset
really
and was used to help use literature as a
means of propaganda. And you know there
are lots of stories about the
intelligence agencies using Dr. Javago
as a as a medium for fermenting
opposition within the Soviet Union.
And so I was kind of like, how the heck
do we end up in Nabacov's house?
Oh wow. And maybe the answer was that
you know there was already at that time
uh an intelligence world that you know
in later years because of dad's work in
nuclear negotiations that again maybe
he'd been kind of identified early on
but I I would love for you dad to just
dive into. You are in the situation
room. You are down to the last 3 hours
before you all think that you're hitting
the nuclear go button. And can you just
describe
what was it like in that moment and how
did you avert the nuclear crisis?
A strict quarantine on all offensive
military equipment under shipment to
Cuba is being initiated.
I was appointed leazison between
McNamera
and M George Bundy and the and JFK.
I mean pretty critical job.
McNamera's secretary of defense at the
time.
And um so all right, I'm there and I'm
wondering what I'm going to work on. And
suddenly the Cuban missile crisis
unfolds
and I get a call.
Um Bob wants you to work directly
with a small group in the war room. I
said what's the war room? It's where the
generals meet and decide go no go cuz
they have the weapons and the white
house doesn't have them. And um
so this is Bob Mcame. He wants you to
meet
he want me to be there in that room as
his guy. They would know I'm his guy.
And um I said, "Yeah, they're not going
to be eager to hear from this young
sport." He said, "Don't
tell them what you think should happen.
Ask them a lot of questions.
Your job is to slow them down.
Reduce the heat in the room. Get
everybody more calm. And um
if you just keep asking questions and
make them think,
you'll be surprised how far that goes.
And and it buys us time,
takes the pressure off from them because
there are some people in in that group I
didn't realize was Kurdish. They were
worried about who wants to go ahead and
punish Russia for even trying.
So,
so I get started in that and after a few
days got used to the group. They got
used to me. They didn't ask me to get
the coffee.
They treated me like, "Okay, belong
there." And I didn't say anything that
made them.
I didn't talk down to them.
I asked them how's your wife today.
And um we got to the
last hours, roughly four hours, when JFK
told
we we put a quarantine around
Cuba, if you if one of your ships
breaks through the quarantine,
that will be an act of war and we will
take action. We didn't specify
and Among the generals, there were
arguments.
What should we do? Do we take out the
missiles that are in Cuba? Well, we
don't know whether some are armed or
not. Do we know that that they have the
ability to to do more than we see? Um,
might they start World War II in order
to take get a step ahead?
This was a time of mutually assured
destruction. It was like really
terrifying in some sense.
And um so in that final hours waiting to
see if they were going to stop or not.
And there was communication going on
none of us were privy to between Kush
and JFK. And there was one additional
element. The history books have omitted
the Russian ambassador
um
he arrived that year in Washington. He
was unique.
He wasn't a typical diplomat. He was a
member of the central committee in
Moscow. They sent him to Washington as
the highest ranking politician
in Moscow
and in that position he was able to
himself talk
with the top people in the central
committee.
Um
anyway,
in the in those final hours,
agitation level was high.
We all sat down after somebody had
coffee break
and one of the senior generals
sent a signal. I don't know.
We didn't have cell phones. an aid came
in said, "I want you to call Mary, my
wife, tell her to load the car, get
everything ready to go and drive as fast
as you can to Maine to our country
place, and then let's resume now,
gentlemen."
Yeah. It's like literally, Mary, take
the kids and get out of here, right?
Like we're about to be at the end.
Oh, God.
Right. And and this is the bit, Dad,
where it's so important that it's Curtis
Lame who wants to drop a nuke.
So maybe Doctor Strange Love wasn't so
It was based on him.
Yeah. Let me finish the story.
[laughter]
They um so in the group I said gentlemen
every all the thinking of the last
ever since the bomb was dropped in in
Japan
all the thinking is about mutually
assured destruction. If we go we both
get obliterated.
Does this make any sense to any of us in
this room? there must be some degree of
action less than that. And they all
said, "Yeah, well, we haven't explored
that." I said, "Yeah, we don't have any
calibration,
any idea of small steps
um or
ways to convince that we're serious."
But what but I mean I mean if we attack
Russia but
but are we really ready for that? No. Um
now if we attack Cuba
and Russia thinks it's the first step
that they want to get one step ahead of
us by being first actor.
Well that would be bad. We can't know
what they're thinking, but we have to
kind of think about that. Or we may take
some step and they fire a little bit at
us, but a little bit makes us pissed off
and then we decide to unload everything.
And Lame is in this group saying, "My
strategic bombers are ready."
Um, he normally had all these missiles,
but
his his nickname is bombs away.
I had no I had no idea what a miserable
mean,
arrogant guy this was. I mean, I just
there was nothing written a lot about
him other than he was um super
aggressive. But
is he chief of staff of the air force at
this time? uh certain air command
command. Okay.
And it's important that you mention how
he says, "My guys, we keep setting them
up to the point of no return."
Yeah, that's what I wanted to say that
the um he said in the room
to all these other generals and
admirals,
um you can't imagine the morale problem
I have.
Every day I send my boys out there, they
reach the point of no return where they
if they keep going, they'll run out of
fuel.
And he said, "I have to order them
back." He said, "The morale is really
I'm they're ready."
He's playing with millions of people's
lives to make sure that the morale of
his, you know, units are are okay.
Mr. President, I'm not saying we
wouldn't get our hair must, but I do say
no more than 10 to 20 million killed
tops depending on the brakes.
That's he said that and everybody in the
room looked down at their lap. They
didn't want to eyeball him, you know,
like
Yeah, I didn't hear that.
Yeah. It's like if you have nothing nice
to say, say nothing at all. I mean, he's
also, for the context, for the audience,
he was in charge of the 509th atomic
bomber squadron in Roswell, New Mexico
that was responsible for the bombings in
Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Yeah. Well, and he was in charge of all
the fire bombing in Germany.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, his idea of enemy is
obliterate them. Anyway,
I didn't know what I was up against, but
you know, it might have scared me, but
it didn't. So I I said, "Well, let's all
the rest of us, let's contemplate the
options." We slowly talked and then it
turned out
that we got word the Russians stopped
the the boats
at the point of quarantine.
And
I said, "Can we agree
that we should back off?
back
and co said no way we've got to teach
them a lesson that they messing with us
they have to have something to remember
we need to s we need some surgical
strikes on Russia it doesn't have to be
populationoriented
but we need to make it painful
and I said but that leads us back into
will they think that this is just the
beginning of Armageddon. We we we simply
haven't had a discussion. We have no
communication channel to deal with that.
It doesn't make sense. I It seems to me
backing off for now and letting the
discussions continue. How do we avoid
this being the pre preference? And every
all the generals agreed and the the one
that had called his wife pushed the
button. His aid came in saying, "Call
Mary back. Tell her unload the car."
But but you also made a a suggestion
that
if you hit Moscow, there wouldn't be
anybody to negotiate with. And further,
if you let it leak to the Russians that
you wouldn't hit Moscow, maybe they
wouldn't hit Washington. And everybody
in the room just loved that.
And if I remember correctly, you kind of
rhetorically back them into a corner
where you say, "What would be your prime
target first?"
And then they say Moscow. And then you
say, "Oh, if it was if it's Moscow, then
you can't talk to anybody in Moscow.
There's nobody to negotiate with."
That's we went through that because I I
said it's madness. You don't
If you're going to start something and
you need to stop in that system, there's
only one point of decision. If you hit
Moscow, there's no one to talk to.
And then that's at that point, right?
Lame storms out and gets all angry. Is
that is that right or something?
Yeah. No, he he literally got up,
slam his papers down.
I can't I'm not going I'm not I I refuse
to grind with this.
That man is a really maniac. But I have
to tell you I did not buckle.
No, I know you didn't.
Now he had by the way just before that
raised the voting level to defcon 2
and it was not approved by the
president.
Really?
He did it
unapproved. He raised the one level of
the death
to have that power. I mean we surprised
but anyway he may have had that power.
Interesting.
Anyway I mean when I look back and think
Jesus you know I I stood in the way of
this
historic bigger bomb. [laughter]
I mean he could have got stood up and
tried to beat me up. I mean that kind of
person when he stormed out what a relief
to the whole group.
Um
but it was the first in a series of
evident clashes between him and JFK.
It it was personal. Somehow it all
radiated. This is not about Russians
only. Something
something was going on in his head. We
learned later about some of the other
things but
well and you had the Bay of Pigs before
that as well.
Yeah.
Which is this crucial kind of juncture
where uh you know I think actually
Eisenhower kind of left his his second
term slightly skeptical of Dulles. I
think initially he was willing to kind
of go along with his plans
and JFK didn't quite know what to think
and after the Bay of Pigs it was really
this clear rupture where you had the
kind of CIA sort of you know quote
unquote deep state and uh they had sort
of their own plans and they re they
really wanted to uh oust uh Castro and
and Gavvara and then you had JFK and and
he felt like this whole thing was just
botched and they they send these Cuban
exiles in there to kind of create this
revolution, but it's kind of half done
and the exiles are actually left kind of
isolated. Doesn't quite work out. And
then you have this rift where you have
people like Curtis Lame and Allan Dulles
in complete loggerheads with JFK. JFK
gets angry. He says, "I want to scatter
the CIA to the winds."
President saying he's going to bring the
CIA into 1,000 pieces.
Is that roughly right?
Yeah, that's right. So this this was the
prelude
this that period to what became a clash
over how do we respond when we have an
excuse
and the main said at least let me
send my bombers up to some strategic
facilities of the Russians.
But how do you sort it out
for the Russians point of view? Bombers
coming at us. We don't know their
trajectory. We can't study that. It's
not like a missile. You know once it's
fired, you know where it's going.
So high risk.
And I said this doesn't make sense. So
everybody agreed except and he blew up
when he thought he was going to
dominate.
Well, I mean, I didn't know that this
was a moment of history
and
that somehow
my arguments won, but on the other hand,
I thought this is why Maxima sent me
down here.
Mhm. Well, that seems it's such an act
of genius to him on his part to to call
you in as a 27-year-old to stagnate
these sort of more aggressive, you know,
guys like Curtis Lameé. And you think of
the way Robert McNamera is depicted in
like, you know, Errol Morris's fog of
war, just as an example, and he's seen
as this sort of wararmonger. And this,
you know, cuts completely against that.
McNamer, do you mean to say that instead
of killing 100,000 burning to death
100,000 Japanese civilians in that one
night, we should have burned to death a
lesser number or none and then had our
soldiers cross the beaches in Tokyo and
been slaughtered in the tens of
thousands? Is that what you're
proposing?
Yeah. He know his instruction
he said these guys are coming in that
room and several of them have sidearms
that are fully loaded with the safety
off.
Oh my god.
They had to go said your task is lower
the temperature.
Yeah. Wow.
And see if you can't stretch it out.
Give us time to work something out. What
foresight on his part?
[music]
Johnston Island was the center of launch
and experimental activity for the 1962
high alitude weapon effects testing
termed operation fishbowl.
Running from April to October of 1962,
Operation Dominic was a classified
American program conducting 31 nuclear
test explosions in the Marshall Islands.
These tests were designed [music] to
study the effects of nuclear detonations
in high altitudes in space and near
space.
One of these tests, Starfish Prime,
created an electromagnetic pulse that
extended over 1,400 km, knocked out
street lights, triggered burglar alarms,
and caused electrical surges in nearby
Hawaii. It also produced an artificial
aurora visible from Hawaii to New
Zealand. And it even created a man-made
radiation belt similar to the Van Allen
belt that destroyed multiple satellites.
The last few tests of this series were
the Bluegill tests, which involved a
unique X-raybased missile defense
system, and Harold was put in charge of
doing all of the cost assessments for
this test. Tell us about the the
Bluegill Triple Prime test.
Well, I arrived in Washington summer of
62.
In 61 there were two highlevel
um tests of
an incoming missile and
an interceptor fired up to see if they
could stop it. Those two tests failed.
Summer of 62, I arrived and
first I'm in the middle of this
[clears throat] missile crisis and then
before it's barely over,
hell, would you set up a small group?
will give you the people
to devise the outlines of an
anti-missile system so that we can start
anticipating for the future.
I said, "Yeah, that's something that
DARPA should do with a bastard." They
said, "No, no. What we want is a concise
top back of the envelope calculation.
What should be the elements of it? What
would it cost and how much would it cost
for the enemy to offset?
I said, "Okay, I'll take it on." And I
got that assignment. I'm thinking, "Holy
cow,
um, this is huge." And they gave me
these people in the joint chiefs of
staff in the weapon systems evaluation
group. Who am I talking to these guys?
Missile defense was a major priority for
the United States in the heart of the
Cuban missile crisis. While American
offensive nuclear capabilities were
ahead of the Soviets, the US still
didn't have precise ways of defending
against a nuclear attack. But there were
some novel ideas in missile defense at
the time. In 1961, the Rand Corporation
wrote a report called Some New
Considerations Concerning the Nuclear
Test Ban, [music] which highlighted the
susceptibility of the US ICBM re-entry
vehicles to high energy X-rays.
[music]
To say this is a piece of steel and it's
in outer space. If you impinge high
energy X-rays on this side, so what that
does is blows chunks off the inside
[music] at hypersonic speeds. This novel
insight made its way into the Operation
Dominic Marshall Islands tests.
Here's where it gets interesting. These
X-ray emissions could also take out
surrounding UFOs.
So, I just got that going and test
number three. in that series in October
was a success if I remember the days. It
was while we were busy with Cuba.
Yeah, it was during the Cuban Missile
Crisis actually, the Bluegill Triple
Prime. So, it was October of 1962.
Right.
So, I got a report
because I'm in charge of this new
project, the same report that went to
JFK.
Now you can assume JFK it was read by Mc
George Bundy. That's his job.
I knew if it it must have been read by
Maxim and John McNorton the general
council because they were all
interactive
and almost certainly LBJ because vice
president. Anyway,
um
lo and behold,
they dashed down.
I said, "Wait, I'm puzzled here." In
what the report you've given me, you
have a video videos of
taking down this incoming missile with
especially enhanced X-ray projection
system.
Uh but when you did that, you noticed
that there had been some object
that had appeared on the screen and
joined and tagged along following the
incoming missile down. But by the way,
can I just interject because for me and
I'm I kind of got my dad a little up to
speed on the whole why is Congress
pursuing nonhuman intelligence? Why are
they passing whistleblower legislation?
Um, and so when we started to talk about
this and so he says there's this orb
around the missile.
Yeah.
And I'm like, so didn't you think that
was weird?
And I realized that actually
I think that the people of that
generation were so accustomed to seeing
them that they didn't they knew it
wasn't Russian. They knew it wasn't in
those days it was never going to be
Chinese. They knew it wasn't a threat.
So dad said, "Yeah, we called it a tag
along." I'm like, "A tag along?" Like,
"Didn't you ask what it was?" And and he
sort of replied in such a way that I
realized
nobody asked any questions at that time.
And they were probably encouraged not to
ask any questions. When I saw this
object,
which I call a tag along,
that's what you would call them,
tagalongs.
Wow.
What else?
So that it's so casual that you just
call them tag alongs.
That's why I think they were so inured
to seeing them. They were like, "Yeah,
this tag along."
The UFO nuclear connection was [music] a
complete open secret among top military
brass in the 50s and 60s. In a 1952 Look
magazine article titled The Hunt for the
Flying Saucer, chief UFO investigator
for the Air Force, [music] Captain
Edward J. Rupelt, is quoted saying that
many of the sightings reported had
originated at one atomic weapons related
site or another all around the country.
In fact, while the Operation Dominic
tests were going on in 1962, an AVCO
Mark IV re-entry vehicle attached to an
Atlas 8F missile was being tested at
Cape Canaveral [music] in the Atlantic
Missile Range in September.
This is the footage that was taken from
[music] that test.
At the 4 minute and 40 second mark in
the video, an object appears to phase
itself into existence alongside the
re-entry vehicle, which is traveling at
20,000 ft per second or Mach 18. The
official US Air Force NASA postflight
report even states that the object's
quote unquote origin or identification
could not be determined.
The very next month after this atlas
test at Cape Canaveral, the Atomic
Energy Commission conducted the Bluegill
triple prime test in October of 1962 in
the Marshall Islands. The point is this
was the backdrop for the bluegill tests,
one in which the military, scientific,
and political elite in America were well
aware of the connection between UFOs and
nuclear weapons. Anyway,
when the when the incoming missile
reacted to this blast of X-ray,
um at that moment the report said this
appeared to knock down
this
device they called it. I said the tag
alarm.
And um so I got really I didn't react to
it with shock. I I s thought
let's find out what that was. And um was
there a recovery? Yes, the Navy had
recovered but but fell.
Tell me about it. Oh, we can't do that.
You have need to know about the incoming
missile and the test but not about the T
alarm.
Why not?
And and just to be clear, you've got all
the Q clearances, right? Not some of
them. You got all the Q clearances.
Well, including
and they say, "No, you don't need to
know why."
Well, I had a blanket
besides top secret and all that stuff.
I had
um presidential clearance for the
highest level stuff that comes to the
president.
I mean I had been given everything but
especially that they gave me a blanket Q
clearance. Q was for anything new
nuclear weapons. Why was that separate?
Because that was managed by the atomic
energy commission.
There that was in law separate. But it's
it's so interesting because you hear
that UFO secrecy was sort of uh bound up
in atomic secrecy in the Atomic Energy
Commission.
The guys that were involved in [snorts]
Manhattan were overlaying the same
ecosystem of secrecy and some of the
same ways to uh protect stuff that they
were protecting our nuclear secrets.
[music]
And you don't even have access to the
UFO stuff with all of your queue
clearances.
Two KC135 aircrafts in proximity of the
test were gathering footage.
Australian intelligence analyst Jeffrey
Krookshank, who's done the most in-depth
analysis of this test, calls these two
pieces [music] of footage kettle one and
kettle 2.
A bright fiery object tumbles out from
within uh the nuclear fireball.
You believe that that [music] is some
kind of craft?
just like the one that was following uh
the Atlas 8F test, but this [music] time
it was a real warhead.
You can see clearly from the Kettle 1
footage of the nuclear blast an
unidentified flying object tumble out of
the nuclear fireball.
The official report written about this
test at the time was written by the
Flight Dynamics Laboratory at Wright
Patterson Air Force Base. The report
tries to explain the presence of this
second thermal source in the footage.
Quote unquote, there is no evidence to
indicate that even the closest pod was
ever immersed in the fireball, so it
definitely wasn't one of the
instrumentation pods on the missile.
If that's not weird enough, these videos
were declassified to the public in 1998.
At the declassification review, the
Defense Special Weapons Agency led by
Dr. Byron L. wrist vet applied a large
white triangle to the footage,
sanitizing it, right where you can see
the object tumbling out of the plume in
the kettle one footage.
There's well-known animosity between Los
Alamos and Lawrence Liverour Labs.
Lawrence Livermore ran one aircraft, Los
Alamos ran the other.
The reason why [music]
the kettle one footage was declassified
and kettle 2 wasn't was simply a
personal uh difference in what should
remain [music] classified and what
shouldn't.
Then on October 21st, 2023, when Jeffrey
Kruchank sent a mandatory
declassification review [music] request
to the Department of Energy asking them
to declassify this Kettle 2 footage
which had been sanitized. [music] The
Department of Energy responded saying
that they were unable to locate the
footage. They were literally saying they
lost the footage of one of their most
important highaltitude [music]
nuclear tests. And maybe all you need to
know is that Bluegill Triple Prime is
the only one of the Operation Fishbowl
nuclear [music] tests where any portion
of the released video is still sanitized
and classified to this day.
Sorry, that's classified. and tellingly
look at what happened when a Freedom of
Information Act request was sent to the
National Nuclear Security Administration
generally around these 1962 Operation
Dominic tests. The exact request was for
all records that quote unquote mention
or relate to Starfish Prime and any of
[music] the following UFO, AP, UAV, AAV,
any acronym [music] used by the Atomic
Energy Commission at the time for
unidentified flying objects. The
National Nuclear Security Administration
responded. The letter back in June of
2022 reads, "It was determined that an
additional review of your case by the
subject matter expert [music] with
jurisdiction regarding responsive
records was required.
First of all, who are the subject matter
experts on UFOs? Second of all, this
seems like a tacit admission that there
are responsive records that apply to
this Freedom of Information Act request.
that specifically ask for information on
UFOs. And what about the most senior
official present at Operation Bluegill
Triple Prime? If you're a head honcho
and you see a UFO tumble out of the sky,
surely you can't just engage in business
as usual. Well, the logs of a nearby
Navy ship, the USS Summit County, refer
to a SOPA, or a senior officer present a
float being on board the ship. That
officer was General Alfred Starboard,
the Joint Task Force 8 commander of
Operation Dominic. He was positioned
around 15 nautical miles from surface
zero of Bluegill Triple Prime, which is
the closest allowable distance by the
range safety officer. William Ogle, the
Los Alamos J division weapons design
chief, was General Star's deputy for
Operation Dominic. Ogle writes that
General Starboard left Johnston Island
at 4:00 a.m. the night of Operation
Bluegill Triple Prime.
[music]
Starboard went from the deck of the
Summit County ship to taking off on a
jet from Johnston Island in under four
hours. There were still very important
tests to go, but Starboard apparently
needed to leave immediately. Maybe
because of this successful UFO tagalong
shootown.
Well, what they said is that your
project designation was this, you know,
anti-bballistic
missile,
but you we didn't anticipate
this
unidentified object, but it's not part
of your designation. So, I said that
that's [__] [laughter]
So, I said, I need to know what you
learned.
Now, I'm sure in different words that's
what came out of the White House to the
people running the test who were
under the jurisdiction of the Atomic
Energy Commission
under
Lawrence Geese who was in charge of all
this stuff.
He was head of the Albuquerque division
of atomic energy commission but he was
running everything that he oversaw
everything that had to do with Los
Alamos and highle test
and he's randomly Jeff Bezos's maternal
grandfather through adoption.
Amazing.
Yeah.
It explains a lot talked about in some
of his earlier reminiscences
to reporters. He spent all his summers
with his grandfather.
Interesting. Really? Yes.
Yes. Ah grandfather had a farm.
Ah.
So he I'm sure he had several summers of
space
and looked out there
and now he's got Blue Origin. It's so f
it's just another point in the direction
that rocketry is not what it seems.
Right. So two things happened. I pressed
hard.
You know you you have to let me know
what took place.
Uhhuh.
So they said well for that you have to
come down to Los Al.
You pressed hard with Lawrence G and he
said I want to know.
I didn't know with him that I was
talking to
Okay. with somebody at the Atomic Energy
Commission.
I said, you know, I need to know. I'm
going to decide what I need to know.
Just just to back up. So, you go out to
Los Alamos, you get briefed, you meet
Lawrence Keys, and like literally a
couple of weeks later, suddenly JFK,
LBJ, and their teams are going to Los
Alamos. Wow. So I asked the question,
Dad, how often does a president of the
United States go to Los Alamos? The
answer is
never.
So what was so extraordinary that they
all suddenly rush out there
and this is what you
I think have great insight into
it was about the ele the tag along.
That's what they wanted to know about.
They weren't all fascinated by the test.
They were
by the tag along itself. So what did you
when you came out two weeks before them?
What did you find? What did they tell
you?
I met Lawrence Geese.
He said, "I have this letter saying that
I can brief you." I said, "Thank you
because I really," he said, "Well, the
test details are controlled by naval
intelligence."
It was interesting. and he said they
don't share everything with the Navy
Department.
They are an autonomous entity.
They are more secure
than any other intelligence agency.
It's the oldest intelligence agency in
the US in the 1890s.
Yeah. I said, "Just be be aware
the mighty CIA
is not on their fully approved list to
circulate."
So, I can talk about that on another
occasion. But um anyway,
so I said, "What what am I here to find
out?"
He said, "Well, he reached for some
stuff sitting on his desk.
These are things that have come down."
I'm looking at sitting on his round
rock, you know.
So, you're looking at like material,
anomalous material.
Yeah.
Debris.
But but debris or images?
Wow.
Handling.
Wow. Oh, that's amazing.
At Los,
I was told by
put this stuff in your hands, play with
it. See what it feels like.
What did it feel like?
It felt weird
because it didn't feel anything. We know
What color was it?
The color of something in space.
What's the color of something in space?
Depends on the light in the room or the
light for the camera.
Was it uh was it heavy?
Yeah. The objects
were like I mean I picked them up. They
didn't I didn't put them down. They went
through
the heaven.
If you had been there without knowing
how it was retrieved, would you think
that it was at all different than like
random rocks or something?
I didn't know how it was retrieved. He
was
but he said no this is
some of he said I have it on my desk
just you know as an examples
I mean he didn't say for visitors but I
mean whatever reason he had it there
did it did it was it emitting alpha beta
gamma radiation anything like that
[laughter]
I don't know I don't know if he he must
have known it was safe I mean had all
this instrumentation around.
Anyway, um
so I you know I just what have we
learned
because it does
pertain to designing a missile system?
What kinds of things can interfere with
it or might emulate?
We just need to know more who else is
studying this. Um we need to know about
knowledge in other in other quarters.
China where Russia we feared Russia
science more than China at that time. Um
[clears throat]
anyway
um he explained though that this is not
the first case
of other
unidentified
objects or phenomena.
There's a history. Now he didn't go into
the history with me. He just said do
your research.
I said, "So, you're telling me anyway,
but the Navy says I can't know." Yes.
He said, "Yes, but probably
you saw the original." My bet is that
that
part of the test, the video will have
been scrubbed,
which was, but
yeah.
And he repeated that's Navy
intelligence. there or another. They
live in their own world.
Sometimes they think they're even more
powerful than we are. But
do they still live in their own world?
Yes. [laughter]
That's what everybody says.
There are a few key details of this
story that fill in some gaps that Harold
relayed to Pippa before he passed.
Malgrim confirmed that the entire
Bluegill shootown was an attempt to down
a UFO.
Malgrim explicitly told this to Pippa,
his daughter, and Jeffrey Kruchh Shank.
He also told this to Senate intelligence
staffer Kirk McConnell, who I
interviewed. Uh what uh Mgrren report
reported that he'd been told directly by
Bissell is that we downed a UFO that was
monitoring closely monitoring that test
and it tumbled into the ocean and that
the Navy picked it up. So the American
military knew they could bait UFOs with
nukes and destabilized their flight
paths with EMPs. See, EMPs disrupt local
magnetic fields. It would even locally
disrupt the magneettosphere of the
Earth.
If you're flying at incredible speeds in
a UFO, you probably need to use some
form of quantum sensing. This would
allow you to use the magneettosphere of
the Earth in order to navigate. Birds
even do this. They use aven
cryptochromes to quantum sense the
magnetic field of the Earth and navigate
home. This form of precision sensing
would be necessary in order to navigate
a UFO. So when you disrupt the local
magnetic field, you could cause a UFO to
spin out, lose control, and drop out of
the air. Also, UFO propulsion likely
requires mega volt range electricity and
extremely strong electric field strength
over long periods of time, which would
require a power source that far
surpasses traditional fuel or batteries.
I think UFOs have a nuclear propulsion
source. If the X-ray induced shock wave
from the bluegill payload would disrupt
the plutonium pit of an incoming nuclear
warhead, it would also probably disrupt
the power source of a UFO.
The second missing detail here is that
when Harold was holding the UFO pieces
Lawrence G had given him, they seemed to
[music] telepathically communicate with
him. He heard words in his head when he
felt the pieces. This is a very common
trope in UFO world when it comes to
people handling material firsthand.
Malgrim forgot the exact words, but he
felt like they were important and that
the material may have implanted ideas in
his subconscious. He also apparently
thought that this was a test that
Lawrence G had given him. He wanted to
see if Harold would have this mental
reaction to the pieces. Harold
apparently passed. Once Harold passed
Lawrence Gis's test and realized there
was far more to this tagalong UFO
phenomenon than Met the Eye, Malgrim had
clearly graduated from his role as the
missile cost assessment guy. He needed
to get fully read in. That's when he
received a full briefing on otherworldly
technologies by Richard Bissell.
[music]
Who who is Richard Bissell? [laughter]
Okay. So, a few months after this series
of episodes, missile crisis, Los Alamos,
Richard Bissell
called me up and said, [clears throat]
"I'd like to spend some time talking to
you.
Maybe Friday afternoons after work would
be good."
I said, "Sure."
I knew who he was. I mean he was deputy
director
of CIA and he was in the news a lot
because he he had been the one who have
strike works
develop the U2
in Area 51 at the time was an atomic
testing site and he thought it'd be a
good idea to test the U2 basically right
next door.
Yeah. So this I knew he was at the
center of all the scientific technology
stuff. I didn't know at that time his
ill portion was that he was in charge of
the invade Cuba Bay of Pigs operation
too.
Anyway, you know, I knew he was somebody
of considerable
scope of knowledge
and obviously strong enough to run a big
part of the empire of CIA.
So I sat down
brought a bottle of whiskey out and said
we don't have to drink all of this.
They said, "I talked to everyone around
you.
You were one of the best kids, but
I was told you were the youngest because
you came in a little bit after the
others and also that most of them were
four or five years older.
Um, but you were the star in terms of
agility and
and ability to work with the top level
people without friction.
Um, in other words, you were an
obnoxious, you know, smartass.
So said you're almost certainly on a
curve where you'll continue to be at
that level.
So there are things you need to know
and then he went into
quite a bit but it was not only about
what we still were calling UFOs at that
time
but it was about
CIA operations worldwide.
complexity
um
to times when the president and CIA were
not working in in concert
but it happens when you have a big
system like that it develops a life of
its own.
What did he say about UFOs and and other
world technology? And then what did he
say about CIA's the global nature of
their operation?
Well, it all went down simply to
they were opposed to anything which
threatened their control
and these unidentified
UFOs.
We didn't have the UAP
word yet. They presented forces that
were beyond CIA's knowledge or control
and they interfered perhaps with what
CIA was doing with private industry.
There was a lot of interaction between
Loheed Martin
and CIA
where
they would show up around specific
atomic testing or around specific
technology development or
many types of technology development.
I mean,
um,
do you So, it's almost like the UFOs are
more, it's not just the atomic
connection. They're generically
attracted to the tip of the spear as far
as tech development.
That's at the heart of it.
Yeah. Which is, if you read the
threebody problem by, you know, this
amazing, you know, uh, Chinese science
fiction trilogy,
uh, I saw the movie.
Yeah. It seems like something like that
is almost the case according to Richard
Bissell. Wow.
Yeah.
And so what does he say? So he briefs
you on quote unquote otherworld
technologies.
That to me belies almost uh human
knowledge of these technologies, not
just like these things are randomly
showing up when we're making advanced
technology.
He said this is real.
These we don't know
these phenomena also. We don't know
what the Russians and Chinese and any
anyone else knows. That itself is
threatening.
Now at that time, China was not
as threatening to us
as Russia.
We always overrated Russia in my
judgment and we underrated
the Chinese obsession
to focus in on something very specific
which was the technology race.
Um so but anyway
um
he just wanted me to know that there
were all these conflicting
p
forces of power in play and that they
had influence
on leadership
in many countries not just Washington
and and it tends to run deep into
local politics depending on where the
interests were.
Now, he didn't mention Arkansas, but
when I reflect back, I probably was on
his mind.
Why am I not on the front page of the
paper uh at Ryan Airport or any other
airport with a load of dope, with a load
of guns?
Did Richard Bissell know what was going
on all along? That the Bluegill test was
actually always intended to be a
directed energybased UFO shootown.
Well, tellingly, Harold told Pippa on
his deathbed and offair that the CIA and
Atomic Energy Commission got the very
idea of shooting down UFOs with directed
energy from an extraterrestrial being
that survived the Roswell crash in 1947.
This being was apparently the sole
survivor of that crash.
[music]
Harold even told Pippa that later in his
career, he saw the video of this
creature being interviewed.
And there's a direct link between the
Bluegill Triple Prime tests and Star
Wars or the Strategic Defense Initiative
that later took place in the8s. You see,
the bluegill triple prime tests inspired
Edward Teller's X-raybased Excalibur
designs, which formed the basis of
Reagan's strategic defense initiative,
popularly known as Star Wars. [music]
Star Wars involved a massive network of
directed energy weapons for missile
defense. It also involved satellite
tracking, [music] an immaculate
constellation, if you will, for UFO
shootowns and tracking. This of course
begs the question, was Star Wars always
dual use and intended for shooting down
and quarantining UAP? And if these very
concepts came from the sole surviving
being from the Roswell crash, it begs
the very important question, are we
involved in some sort of bizarre
extraterrestrial proxy war? Ultimately,
one can only speculate. But it is
important to note that before he briefed
Malgrren, Richard Bissell had to have
known about all of this. Remember at the
time he was deputy director of plans for
the entire CIA and he would go on to
become deputy director for the entire
organization its number two. So he was
likely well aware of this interview of
the surviving being at Roswell.
Bissell also founded Area 51 in 1955 and
he'd strategically placed it at the
Nevada test site where hundreds of
atomic tests were occurring in the
early50s.
So he had to have known about the UFO
nuclear connection.
Bissell likely also understood the
secret UFO related intentions of the
bluegill tests all along.
But Harold goes deeper. He implies that
Bissell knows about this other layer of
reality, a form of sort of
extraterrestrial exopolitics that needed
to be managed by elements of the US
government for decades.
Do you think Richard Bissell sort of uh
knew that you were you were sort of an
heir to him and sort of a more like
spiritual sense or something?
I think he was very spiritual
and he was looking for someone who was
somehow connected
connected to what
whatever was happening with
other worldly forces. H
Have you looked Have you looked for
people like that?
Yeah, I'm reading about them all the
time. [laughter]
Yeah. What else did Richard Bissell tell
you?
He said this didn't start last week.
This has been going on.
He mentioned 1933
magenta.
He did.
Yes.
Richard Bissell mentioned the 1933
magenta. Correct.
Yes.
That's amazing.
Exactly.
That is such corroboration cuz that is a
highly conflicted, you know, account.
1933 was the first recovery in Europe in
uh Magenta, Italy. I fully trust David
Grush, but that's amazing that there's
some corroboration from back then.
He mentioned it. Wow.
Italian government moved it to a secure
air base in Italy for the the rest of
kind of the fascist regime until 1944,
1945. And you know, the Pope Pius the
12th backchanled that.
So the Vatican was involved.
Yeah. And told the Americans what the
Italians had and and we ended up
scooping it.
So he said this Yeah. He said this did
not begin. And and
the you have need to know the
background. How did it end up that
Truman transferred
that
that object from Italy?
The steps getting there was arranged by
Alan Dulles.
Mhm.
But that went back to what Pipper
mentioned
and he said the steps that Allan Dulles
helped with the crash retrieval
and and remember Allan Dulles and so
John Foster Dallas and Allen Dulles are
twins.
Yeah.
And John Foster Dallas is running the
OSS the precursor to US intelligence out
of Switzerland.
And then I asked I said Dad why was he
running it out of Switzerland? How the
heck does that happen? And
[clears throat] he said, well, everybody
knew that he did it deliberately so that
he would be beyond the reach of US.
Wow.
Let me explain. after all this all these
events a few years back when I was still
an official
um in the office of the trade
representative well I was
the um principal
um
I was invited by you know Switzerland
doesn't have a president they the leader
is revolves around the canton leaders
but whoever was the leader That year
I visited
the government about several matters and
they said would you like to see the
office of Alan Delos when he lived here.
So I thought it' be fun name beautiful
apartment overlooking the river
and
we got talking I said how do you explain
why he chose to be here? He said oh that
simple. He told us when he got
permission to maintain a very active
office here
that as long as he was in Switzerland,
no American law could reach him as to
something he did that was illegally
moral or otherwise in the United States.
So he said he was here all the time
and it was to allow him a free hand to
to do the most
terrible things if if needed. Okay,
that's understandable.
He was a creepy guy.
Now going back
to 1933.
The relationship needs to be uncovered
between Angleton's father
Angleton
and the Knights of Malta.
Wow. Because the Knights of Malta said
there's long historical connection with
the Vatican
and indeed have this special diplomatic
status. You know, you can be you can
have an international passport for the I
forget how what's the it's a something.
It's a sovereign state
for a handful of people.
Yes.
But it's all connected with the Vatican.
According to multiple accounts,
including UFO whistleblower David Grush,
a disc-like object measuring roughly 10
to 12 m in diameter came down near
Magenta in Lombardi, Italy in June of
1933.
1933 was the first recovery in Europe.
Under Bonito Mussolini's fascist regime,
a total media blackout was imposed
throughout the Stefani news agency.
Telegrams threatened severe penalties
for any reporters who deviated from a
government-ordered cover story
attributing the event to a meteor.
Despite the censorship, a special
investigative body known as Gabonetto or
RS33 formed to study the craft with
highlevel figures such as Mussolini, Air
Marshal Italo Balo, and Nobel Laurate
and radio pioneer Maronei believed to
have been involved. Testimony suggests
that the downcraft and possibly two
recovered bodies were taken to the SIA
Marchetti private aerospace hangers for
intensive analysis. This secret research
group reportedly drew up a nine-step
protocol to manage the Magenta crash and
any similar future incidents. The
instructions included immediate site
containment, arrests of all witnesses,
and thorough disinformation campaigns to
quell public attention. Sounds very
similar to what happened in the United
States after Roswell. Maronei, long
fascinated by extraterrestrial
possibilities, clashed with Mussolini's
insistence that the subject must be of
terrestrial origin. Some documents on
later family confirmations indicate
Maronei genuinely believed the craft
could be non-human. In the late 1930s,
Pope Pius I 12th became aware of the
Magenta retrieval, [music] reportedly
fearing that any recovered technology
might fall into Nazi hands once Italy
allied with Germany. Through discrete
channels, the Pope quietly informed the
Allies about the craft's existence and
storage location. This back channel
intelligence set the stage for the
Office of Strategic Services, America's
premier wartime intelligence gathering
program and the predecessor to the CIA
in World War II, to intervene in
northern Italy as the war approached to
its end. Working under a secret project
called McGregor, OSS operatives targeted
advanced access technology, including
the rumored crashed UFO. By 1945, the
Americans had reportedly transferred the
Italian UFO to Wright Patterson Air
Force Base in Ohio for further study.
Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton,
Ohio.
Many of the top Nazi scientists as a
part of Operation Paperclip that the
Allies had exfiltrated also made their
way to Wright Patterson to work on the
magenta craft.
Malta as a sovereign territory with
diplomatic immunity would be the perfect
international guardians of UFO secrecy.
Initially, when Harold said the Knights
of Malta were deeply embedded in the UFO
story, I had no idea what to think. It
sounded like a plotline from a Dan Brown
or Ombberto Echko novel. Secret society
associated with the Vatican and the
sovereign state of Malta governs UFO
secrecy. Go figure.
But not only were Hugh Angleton and
James Jesus Angleton Knights of Malta,
and remember James Jesus Angleton seemed
to be responsible for a lot of counter
intelligence around UFOs that came out
from the ' 50s to the 80s. But the
bizarre Knights of Malta UFO connection
runs even deeper after further research.
Colonel Philip J. Corso, later famous
for his claims regarding reverse
engineering alien materials at the
Pentagon in his book, The Day After
Roswell, served as a high-ranking
intelligence officer in Italy during the
post-war period. In fact, he was the
personal liaison to the future pope. He
was also a knight of Malta. He was also
a main figure in Operation Paperclip and
helped create the quote unquote rat
lines exfiltrating Nazi scientists and
technology. In fact, many Nazi
scientists, specifically specializing in
exotic propulsion, made their way to
Wright Patterson Air Force Base after
World War II.
Perhaps the most powerful general at the
time, General Douglas MacArthur and his
whole intelligence staff, Knights of
Malta. Many of his staff displayed an
unusual interest in the possibility of a
quote unquote interplanetary war, and
they framed alien related esquetology in
the exact same terms Corso did. During a
1955 speech at West Point, General
MacArthur told assembled cadetses, "The
next war will be an interplanetary war.
The nations of the Earth must someday
make a common [music] front against
attack by people from other planets."
Chief OSS member and another CIA
founder, Wild Bill Donovan, who
journalist Chris Sharp notes was likely
not only involved in the Magenta crash
retrieval, but in setting up original
protocols for UFO crash retrievals, was
also a Knight of Malta. Atomic Energy
Director turned CIA director John Mccon,
later CIA director Bill Casey, Knights
of Malta. Remember that FDR was
responsible for the communications with
the Vatican about the [music] crashed
Magenta craft. Well, President
Roosevelt's Vatican envoy, Myron Taylor,
also a knight of Malta. Maybe religious
studies professor Diana Walsh Basila,
who has visited the Vatican archives and
speaks with conviction that the Catholic
Church knows more than meets the eye
about UFOs, isn't so crazy after all.
Maybe she's spot on. And look at [music]
the group that are supposedly engaging
in UFO crash retrievals today. JCO, or
the Joint [music] Special Operations
Command. According to journalist Seymour
Hirsch, one of the modern heads of Joc,
General Stanley Mcristel, and many of
the members of JOC themselves are all
Knights of Malta.
Does the DOE currently work with JOCK?
We uh work with all of the security
entities around the federal government.
Do you guys work with JOC? Yes or no?
Uh yes, we do.
Okay.
There are Templars at the Vatican. It's
the residue of of the
truth or the myth whatever of nights of
temp the Templars.
But there are rumors that the Knights of
Malta have something to do with the UFO
story as well.
Well, what I'm saying is yeah, they did
because because Angle was there.
So, for context for the audience, James
Jesus Angleton was sort of one of the
original founders of the CIA. Dulles was
sort of a mentor to him. He was a skull
and bones kid and ends up in Italy and
he's kind of this eccentric debonire
interesting guy who was also really just
good at conniving and lying. And so
Engleton's father Hugh
was involved with the Knights of Maul.
He was a member.
He was a member. And so and then so he's
Wow. Oh, so he's involved in the
Vatican, which makes it more likely that
James Jesus Angleton probably had
something to do with the retrieval of
that UFO, the Magenta crash, which was
kept at the Vatican.
Yeah, I'm speculating now, but no doubt
in my mind about myself.
You're speculating, but there's so many
connections. There's even a guy named
John Warner IV, who is the grandson of
Paul Melon and the son of Senator John
Warner. and he tells this story where
he's three martinis in to you know a
dinner or whatever with Paul Melon and
Paul Melon recalls the story Paul Melon
is one of the founders of the CIA and
he's with Allen Dulles doing tech
retrieval in specifically he says I'm in
Czechoslovakia
and I'm standing on top of a saucer with
Allen Dulles
and my grandfather said look you know we
we were in a facility a hanger and we
saw you know a German flying disc and I
said you know oh is that the one that
was cobbled together with six BMW jet
engines. [music] And he laughed and he
said, "No."
Basically implying that it was like this
anomalous object. And right there in
Czechoslovakia in modern day Poland is
this thing called Commto where Hans
Conler, the most ruthless Nazi who was
doing the most kind of black world
technology projects, was rumored to be
working on flying saucers and had
there's this rumor of this thing called
DLA. And so you have the Hugh Angleton
connection, but you also have Dulles
and and Paul Melon standing on top of
this saucer. And when the magenta object
crashed, supposedly there was this
partnership where Mussolini went to
Hitler and was like, I don't really know
what to do with this. Is this yours? And
then Hillary said, no, it's not ours,
but we should work on it together. We
should collaborate.
So there's there there is there are
actually a lot of data points around
this. You start to build this this
picture up.
Mhm. Well,
so said that too. That's amazing.
And the Italians even to this day.
Yeah.
Um are amongst the most innovative in
defense technology in the world.
Yeah, that's so interesting. So maybe
that there's some inherited technology
or something.
Let me say tell you one
backtory that is not well known in
America.
When we look at the world, we say the
second most important military force is
the UK and their and especially the RAF,
but they have really dwindled in
importance
and I didn't know this till recently,
but I'm somewhat rather actively
connected with the military world.
I have a book coming out with essays on
geoc
25 years that's coming up soon
laser
and anyway no UAPs in book
but but
one of the people introducing the book
was the
chief of the Italian air force and I
said that's a little bit odd he said and
the editor said Oh, in the in the Europe
today, the most important air force
besides the US is the Italian air force.
I had no idea
really. So they may they might be more
advanced than meets the eye.
They're more advanced than the rest of
them in Europe.
Interesting.
Yeah, this was news to me. But you know,
I think of Italian I guess the cars as
being fast but unreliable and then but
wow the Air Force Yeah. Well,
well, Northern Italy has world-class
engineering. True.
German level engineering.
And they have it in many fields. Um, and
I always thought it was very interesting
that after the Second World War, the
Germans were prohibited from going into
aircraft because the Luftwaffa had been
such a threat.
And as a result, the Germans specialized
in drones. And I got into drone
technology about not quite 10 years ago.
And the Germans are very strong in that.
And I started to also realize how strong
Italian engineering. But I think this
episode in history is un it's not well
as well understood as it could be. And I
just wonder was this part of what drove
the decision to create what we now call
the axis? um
that because the Italians assumed that
this super high-tech thing must be
German
and that began their dialogue and as
they aligned
that became the Axis.
Wow.
And then again back to George C.
Marshall and the team that is basically
cleaning up after the end of World War
II and their recognition that many
people have knowledge of very advanced
technologies. They must be brought to
the United States and that operation
paperclip period. And again, who's
already there? It's all these cast of
characters and where have they been
based? Italy.
That's amazing. That's so it's so
fascinating.
Again, there's no proof in that, but
there's an interesting line of inquiry.
But there's so much cooper Richard
Bissell to add to the the Dulles Paul
Melon story to add to David Grush's
recent testimony. So we are building up
this you know important uh corroborative
narrative.
I'm just mentioning in passing you know
this walking stick I have
it's from a an old shop. It's an old
it's the same car but I was told it was
Paul Melon's washing stick.
No way. That's so interest. What do you
How'd you end up with that?
Oh they live in the same part of
Virginia.
Okay. What?
Well, I knew I didn't know Paul Melon,
but I knew all the people around him.
Yeah.
Including
his wife.
How how
Oh, and his his um personal
um I would call him ran the fox hunt for
him and ran took care of the horses and
you know he had raceh horses everything.
That guy became a close palibine. So I
heard all these stories about Paul
Melon. So, I didn't meet Paul Melon, but
I know more about his life than you
would imagine, including all his
girlfriends.
Oh gosh.
[laughter]
Well,
but I have his walking stick.
That's so interesting. That's wild. I
kind of I feel like we should put it in
the shot or something.
It was sent to me as part of my mission,
but I still don't know my purpose, but
Thanks, Peppa. Um, and so what what do
you think the Knights of Malta play some
sort of role? Yes. In UFOs, and what do
you think their role is?
Uh,
now you're getting to the heart of the
residue of that organization that still
exists.
What form does it take now? I have no
idea. But they still have the sovereign
state identity. Do you think it goes
back to the original Templars?
I don't know.
Okay.
But how did they get the sovereign
state? Vatican must have organizes.
They seem to have kind of a lot of top
level business leaders and politicians
involved in the Knights of Malta.
That's right. So something Yes. We It's
a It's a secretive society. I mean there
are all these secret societies.
Um, so many things
over the years have been attributed to
the Council on Foreign Relations.
Yes,
I was member of the council for
I don't know 50 years.
I I dropped out recently because they
wanted me to keep sending them large
amounts of money.
I thought, yeah, you know, I've done my
I paid my dues. But when you get back to
the Council of Foreign Relations and you
dig deeper, well, wait a minute. It
wasn't really them. It was some of them
select group
um through Brown Brothers Haramman that
set up CIA.
You know, they're different groups did
different things
and some of the
great financial figures were involved
with some but not others.
Um,
it's not very different from the WF in
in Switzerland.
Different group,
but there's a Council Foreign Relations
Knights of Malta connection.
Um,
I I would say there's some overlap
membership, but no no connection.
Anyway, the CM foreign relations has
been diluted and changed since the days
of Second World War and the Cold War.
It's now um much more diverse and much
more
defensive of who who's ever in power in
the White House. I don't know what
they're going to do with Trump.
Um, but they have been they've been sort
of swept along with
progressive Democrats.
Right. So, this is you just brought this
in. This is Paul Melon's walking stick
that you ended up with.
I can't verify, but that's what I was
told.
These are the rumors. What um does it
represent anything? It looks very
unique.
Well, he had a lot of power.
[laughter]
So that was bestowed upon you.
Um what else what else did uh did
Richard Bissell tell you? Well, I mean I
think I've explained
in essence there are multiplicity of
powers in play at any moment
and around presidents
they have certain powers but they are
constrained by these other powers
and among them the intelligence
community is very powerful
because it has found ways to fund itself
and to multiply itself.
So you can't look at the budget and say
that's what it is. It's it operates
businesses,
legitimate and illegitimate,
right? So it's sort of this gangly
octopus. It's impossible to really
capture.
And so the Russians do this too.
And they even do it in overt ways. They
did with the um this group that the
leader was assassinated
the
Posian
Wagner. Wagner group.
Oh Vagner group. Yeah. Posian. Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean they do that's over. They do it
not over. The Chinese are everywhere
doing all kinds of stuff.
Even in Manhattan.
Yeah.
So when when you weigh actions, you have
to take into account what you see and
what you don't see. The unseen enemies,
the
I should have been aware of that when I
blurted out some of these comments on
UAPs
and I stumbled into controversy. I have
no intention of
Have Have Have Have Have Have Have Have
Have Have Have Have Have you gotten any
backlash? Because you've been saying
some remarkable things on Twitter or
I usually get it. So So Dad drops
something on Twitter and suddenly my
inbox is full like full people saying,
you know, your dad is breaking the
internet.
But that seems positive. It's mostly
positive.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She she
calls me from some far away place,
wakes me up in the morning. You see
different hours and then you just blew
up the internet.
I actually I said I leave you alone for
five minutes.
Breaking the internet.
I love it. I carefully crafted some
backing up language that I was not
directly
um involved with
UAP research. You said read my words
carefully.
Right.
No, if you if you read them carefully, I
was not I was saying it. I was not
directed to look at that. It was
um but I didn't say that I wasn't aware
of it.
Yeah.
And I knew that eventually this stuff
would come out and say, "Yeah, I knew
about that." But I I use the words to
make it look like I was backing away
speculation. But I didn't do that. The
words didn't suggest I was speculating.
I think this is an issue sometimes with
uh people who are high up in government
who want to disclose certain things but
don't want to break any sort of
relationships they have or oaths they've
sworn or clearances they have
where you'll hear David Grush or
something spec he'll say this is open
source this is a personal story and
he'll have to caveat constantly with
that and so if you're an average person
you just immediately your skeptical
trigger goes off but in fact he's trying
to do you a service and saying, "Look at
this. This is open source. I just don't
want to end up, you know, uh uh uh under
the gun here because I don't want to I
don't want to, you know, end up in
jail." You're giving your enemies
fodder.
The thing to to keep in mind, and as in
the research I've done, too, is what you
find is a lot of this cast of
characters, including James Jesus
Angleton, who went on to become the key
person at the CIA, they all seem to have
been part of General George C.
Marshall's team
at the end of the Second World War.
They're all involved with the Marshall
Plan somehow or another, including
Kennedy and Foresttoff for a period are
part of that. And so difficult to prove,
but
strange that they all seem to be
connected to this subject.
Well, Forestall's uh was supposedly on
this majestic 12. who knows how much of
the Majestic 12 is true, but this sort
of, you know, elite uh military and
intelligence uh advisory board for
Truman and Eisenhower. And then George
Marshall also, there's this thing called
the Battle of Los Angeles in 1942 where
a UFO shows up and like flies down the
coast and George Marshall was briefed to
that. And so that very interesting.
Okay. So you have and then the the other
connections I think that are important
to make with the Marshall plan is that
was kind of immediately after these tech
retrieval programs in Europe. So the
Nazis had all this advanced technology
and you had TACOM and ASOS. One was, you
know, signals intelligence. The other
was, you know, atomic intelligence. And
it was trying to retrieve their most
exotic technology. And if there was
anything, you know, involving UFOs
there, that would sort of be bound up in
it.
One of my closest friends when I came to
Washington was an attorney named Tom
Farmer.
And Tom and I played tennis together.
But turned out Tom had been general
counsel of CIA.
Um,
and he'd been at again at with the guys
doing the Marshall Plant.
Wow.
I was going to say it turned out he was
involved in in the project called
Paperclip.
Uhhuh. are picking Germans. And the
reason why was he he was born in Berlin
of a father who was a US diplomat, but
he spoke German fluently.
So
now
it never dawned on me when I when it was
my friend to start asking you about
paperclip, but I learned later he knew
everything. He was he was one of the
people saying yes for him, no for him.
You know,
[music]
do you believe that advanced technology
has benefited from retrieved uh
unidentified aerial objects? So this
would be like the Philip Corso Day after
Roswell narrative.
The answer I would have to give is yes
in two ways.
In one way we have learned that some
types of propulsion for example
exist that we did never never envisioned
never conceived.
Um the second way
is that they have revealed
a higher level of knowledge than
anything we have on earth
and
we don't control it.
Now we only recently even
where where is it coming from? I mean
you know we have this new telescope
looking up where are they?
But then we have one revelation by the
oceanographer
last few days who says
they are not China, they are not US.
They are not extraterrestrial, meaning
they're either here already under the
water or subterranean.
That's where they are.
Yes.
And then [clears throat] David Gush, he
says talks about is it interdimensional?
Yes.
They're suddenly and one sort of wonders
like
is this semantics? Like if you ask
officially are there extraterrestrials,
the answer is no because
extraterrestrial means off planet. Yeah,
but it doesn't include if it's
interdimensional, if it's oceanbased, if
it are we actually all talking across
purposes.
Well, it's the reason the all domain
anomalous, you know, research office
which is headed up by Kirk Patrick who
has all these sort of, you know, and we
should get into the the atomic ties to
the UFO question. He has all, you know,
this whole history and, you know, atomic
research. She was at Oakidge and he
always rests on we have no hard evidence
of extraterrestrial life but of course
you know you have these anomalous things
you haven't done an proper analysis on
them you don't know what they are you
haven't classified them and so you just
you use that's like this straw manning
way of you know explaining the thing
away and for an average person who's not
really into the topic you go oh this
official is saying that there's no
extraterrestrial yeah but it's it's
always extraterrestrial so so is there
was there anything else that Richard
Bissell told you I I I hate to, you
know, harp on that one interaction, but
it just it's so fascinating
you on other world technologies.
Does he say anything else?
Well, he he didn't
admit to or talk about
bad things that had happened. He didn't
want to get into a discussion about the
Bay of Pigs.
um he didn't raise
incidents where we have overturned
governments. He somehow he avoided that
stuff. But um I think most of it was
about if you work at the leadership
level whether you're a lead leader or a
guide to a leader you've got to keep in
play in their minds the conflicting
forces
and a lot of these forces are not on any
legal boxes
of who has authority over what um you
can't do a a diagram that is meaningful
for the entire US government because a
lot of it is other power networks. Well,
this Michael Turner who's been I mean he
was a lynch pin for three companies at
least
and had you know he blocked everything.
Suddenly he's that's very unusual
someone with that much power usually you
have to buy them off
you give them something else more
important you promote them
um yeah someone asked me once what's the
most effective way to get rid of a major
enemy I said you promote them
right
give them something more visible where
the ego can be pacified I I did it more
their wounds.
You don't want the
That's funny. You don't want them
people.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You don't want
them licking their wounds. You'd rather
have them happy and not focused on
whatever they were focused on.
I've never been publicly pnacious.
But there were times,
well, I think Peppa had breakfast with
one member of the Congress at one time.
And she told me, "Dad, I have breakfast
with him and I asked him how is it dad
has so much power but he has no enemies.
People of power have so many enemies."
And he said the only thing he would say
is the rumor is none survived.
So whether that's true or not, I
cultivated that rumor. I told everybody
that's the rumor.
Don't ask me.
[laughter] very
very
but I think the key here is
it's not so much what did Richard
Bissell say directly to dad although
that has immense value it's important to
capture this for posterity but it's also
an invitation you are now part of a
network of people it will be known that
you've been blessed
um it will be known not just in our
government it will be known and other
governments. It will be known by the
Russians and that network operates for
the whole of your life.
There are different sources of
information about
how communication between JFK and Kra
was established. Now to the average
human in the world we in which we live
we say why they speak of the bone.
Mhm.
But number one first represented
central committee.
If you were really going to communicate
with the central committee you would use
the ambassador who had a direct line.
So he would know.
So if he if he didn't serve I think he
may have served us but we don't know he
didn't disclose but I know I can tell
you about that later but I mean he came
to know me that but um but
the American ambassador was that Walter
Staceil or who
was it didn't matter
the only thing that matter was number on
power
um in communication with Moscow.
But but that's was the official
channels. But there seems that there
were also unofficial channels.
Well, there had to be.
And one of them was it seems uh Norman
Cousins
Cousins. Yeah.
Who was against nuclear weapons and
somehow was able to pass letters back
and forth that reached Kushev. I'm
trying to think back. I haven't talked
about this before.
My first encounter with
Dorinan,
as I said, he arrived in ' 62,
a phenomenon unusual, the member of the
central committee.
And
I was attending
some months after this
in ' 63.
Um went to one of these Washington
gayas, you know, the White House pressur
roast of the president or one of those.
We have those events.
And when you're invited,
you get a seat with a names
card. You don't sit where you want. You
sit where your name card is. So I sat
down.
This distinguished looking gentleman sat
next to me
and said, "Hi,
I'm Hal Mun." He said, "Yes, I know you.
I am Ambassador Doin.
So all my alarms went off.
That's not accidental.
He chose to sit there,
I'm sure.
So I'll have to be careful.
And he just chatted friendly way.
Um,
your name
is well known in Russia long before you
in at these heady levels of decision
making. I said, "Why is that?" He said,
"You're you are named after your uncle
whose name is identical to mine." M
he said he was really famous as a chess
player especially among all the security
people who were nuts about KGB and
others about chess who was the chess
champion in them. So, and he played many
Russians.
Um, oh, I said, so he said, you
identified
as the progeny of that Herald Bren,
which in our way of thinking is
good bloodlines.
Um,
and so we chatted about that and how
coming to Washington was surprised for
me. He said, "Well, you've landed at the
center of everything." I said, "Yeah,
I'm surprised." They said, "Yeah." He
said, "I gather you were in there with
the generals."
I said, "How would you know that?" He
said,
"Our [laughter]
system is far more thorough. You should
be aware of that and you might imagine.
I said yeah. He didn't ask me about what
took place except to say you emerged as
someone who was able
to
talk down the most belligerent
American military official
of all time
or of our time anyway.
And so he said made you of interest. How
how did you do that?
Um well, it's like a good chess player.
How did you win?
And um
so
later
we had these encounters, I don't know,
once a year or something unplanned. He
was bound me.
Let's have a chat.
And um
he did ask I have never talked about
this. He did ask at one time
um why is everyone so excited about
these unidentified
flying objects?
Really?
He just innocently wasn't trying to pump
uh
intelligence out of me about anything
specific. He was very careful.
I said because it's something we don't
control. It's very simple. Whatever it
is,
we feel threatened because we only feel
safe when we are in total control.
Um he said, "Nations
are never in total control. There are
always unexpected challenges." I said,
"Yeah, but tell that to somebody in
Washington. would do. I mean they are
not students of history in Washington.
You know the emergence of of new
threats.
It's not something we easily absorb.
It's not our culture.
We're either triumphant or not. And
winning the second world war made us
feel really superior.
Um
so
he said there's something there remember
he said that is um dividing your country
but maybe could unifying other two
countries.
That's the way he said it.
And this is about the UFO subject.
So extraordinary.
Wow.
That's he probed it. I think he was
looking for me to say something,
but I was not privy to those
letters between
JFK and
there are rumors that JFK wanted to do a
joint space program with the Soviets
around this and use the UFO thing as
kind of a unifying, you know, rallying
cry or something.
But he would
p number one reason
let's not
be misguided by these events that think
to think it might be us versus them that
this is not Russia or the US. So we we
we need an early warning system.
Those things that you see are not ours.
All right, that makes sense.
how it extended beyond there to the
other idea.
Maybe we should work together.
Let's drop put the swords down and let's
come up with a way
to
develop our futures without being mortal
enemies.
Now that switch,
my understanding was definitely in
Kennedy's mind.
And so
did did I see any? No. No, I didn't. But
some people did. The fact that he wanted
he expressed verbally to a number of the
senior people his desire to share our
knowledge
of UFOs
with Russia caused alarm
among some
officials in Washington. Now
K definitely
but that was one of many things that JFK
and he were fighting about. So um
but it seemed to alone people at CIA or
some people CIA is a big organization.
There is this letter that was foyed and
used the Freedom of Information Act to
to you know to to get out of the
government in 2005 and it's of
controversial provenence. So, we should
caveat that to the audience, but it's a
letter from JFK to acting CIA director
John McCone after he had fired Dulles.
And he's basically saying, "We need to
coordinate. I need all the data on quote
unquote unknowns in uh in in sensitive
airspace from NASA because we need to
coordinate better with the Russians so
they don't mistake these unknowns as
acts of American aggression." And that
he's basically saying, I need all the
UFO data so I can better coordinate with
the Russians and we don't end up in, you
know, some uh uh horrible, you know, uh
uh bombout scenario due to the UFOs.
How do we deconlict?
How do we decon?
How do we create a regime for
deconliction so that we don't
inadvertently fire and it's not the
Russians or vice versa?
And in the 1971 salt treaty,
it's written into it.
It's that sort of same language is
written into it.
It's in there. And so so do do we think
that this letter might be real, this
2005 for letter or
blankly?
That's amazing.
Do do you think that UFOs played any
sort of part in JFK's death?
This is pure speculation until we see.
But do I think so? Yes.
I think it was probably the number one
issue. Why do you think that?
Because from what I have read,
not what I know because I don't know
anything about the actual documents sent
by JFK
to
but what I have read is that he wanted
to talk openly about
the UAP phenomenon
and the basis for why we stop fighting
with each other and join forces
with and make peace
and he also wanted to reduce the nuclear
arsenal on both sides.
Yes.
And that was also a threat and challenge
to
part of the community. Yeah.
And Dela specifically hated that visav
China because it was like if we didn't
have nukes they would outman us.
Yeah. It was worried about numbers. So
you so so you think maybe in some of th
that correspondence it was let's work
together on the the non-human
intelligence or alien issue. It's it's
funny uh Douglas Caddy who is the lawyer
of Howard Hunt. Howard Hunt's this you
know known CIA longtime spook who shows
up in all sorts of you know he's like
the the janitor in Watergate or
whatever.
It's incredible. And um and he Douglas
Caddyy says, you know, I kept asking
Howard Hunt, you know, what was the JFK
murder actually about? And he kept
giving these kind of deflection answers
and then finally he says it was about
the alien presence.
Yeah, I think it was
that's fascinating.
I think JFK fully knew all about UFOs
long before he became president.
What gives you conviction in that?
because
he was in naval intelligence for a
while. He learned most of it from
Foresttol. He was in in the intelligence
and and
Forestall was secretary of the Navy
before becoming Secretary of Defense.
Yeah. And Foresttol
fully briefed him and talked about it
and he talked about you'll have to do
the history but he he was fully briefed
by Forestall. How do we know Forest
Stalt knew about UFOs? Because there
tons of rumors. He, you know, managed
Admiral Bird who engaged in Operation
High Jump, you know, bringing probably
like 70 or so ships, uh, and 33, I
think, you know, airplanes and almost
5,000 men down the coast of of Argentina
and towards Antarctica. And they
reportedly encounter all these flying
saucers that are shooting at them with
lasers. But other than that, do we have
any real, you know, evidence that
Forestall knew about UFOs?
You have to do more research. I my
research, which tends to be scattered
and until recently, I haven't tried to
organize it, but I found several
references
to Portol
for him going to Paris with questions
and getting answers.
Interesting. Well, you know, JFK was
also extremely interested in
astrophysics at Harvard and was close
with Don Menzel, who was this famous UFO
debunker, but who admitted to JFK that
he held some of the deepest, you know,
clearances across the board, CIA, NSA,
and Navy.
And so maybe there's some sort of
connection there. Um, but did did did
you ever speak to JFK about UFOs
directly?
No. No.
My interaction with JFK and Bobby was
very limited. But
I was somehow part of the clan because
Sriber the brother-in-law
was the go. He talked to me all the
time.
massage driver
proposed me for I don't know several
different jobs and I declined each one.
Um
but I was unaccepted in a circle of
person but Bobby and Teddy they were
consumed with events that seem to be
coming at them faster and faster.
If I look back at top management, I
would have to say they were operating
without an adequate buffer system.
So my guess is they were overloaded with
stuff and didn't have a way of neither
one of them. When you're a senator, you
have a small staff, but you know, you
don't you're operating on your own. You
don't know how to run apparatus. someone
like LBJ came in, he he ran the whole
damn Senate.
Um, you know, some multitude of people
at lower levels,
but
um JFK came in with small limited naval
experience, but seemed to be
busy with Forestall.
And um
do you think Forest Doll's death had
anything to do with UFOs? So Forest
Stall was sort of pushed out of uh his
position at Secretary of Defense. Yeah.
And he was he was sort of betting on
George Dwey against Truman and then he
ends up in this Navy hospital Bethesda
Maryland and he sort of you know gets
killed by gravity quote unquote. It's
he's like midw writing some Sophocles
poem. I think his brother his brother
Harry Forestall had met with him the day
before said he was totally of same sound
mind
through a window didn't seem to be
openable. That's right. That was the
other thing. Yeah. And it was like his
bathrobe was like tied to the I The
whole thing made no sense.
So, do you think that had anything to do
with an interest in the UFO subject?
Probably.
Wow.
But I I'm not going to speculate.
Yeah. And so, but so after JFK and all
these guys, George McByundee, all all of
his top aids are they go to Los Alamos,
they're presumably given the same sort
of briefing that you got. Yeah.
Do you think he then takes an increased
interest in UFOs at all?
Yes.
And what makes you think that?
I think
JFK somehow saw this moment to make
world peace.
We weren't worried about China at that
moment.
But why don't we and the Soviets just
stop fighting, join forces,
explain what we know together, and deal
with this
force that we don't understand.
Yeah. And there
and somehow in that exchange during the
crisis itself,
there were communications with
we don't know every word.
Maybe some of it is recorded.
Some of it may have been through
the brain
who may have used his lines to I mean he
had his method of communication that was
theoretically
couldn't impregnate problem. I seem to
establish a working
discussion between two two guys
and that's that's a thread that recurs
occasionally. Uh actually Gorbachev was
being interviewed by Charlie Rose.
Yeah.
And Charlie is saying you know she's
talking about you know talk talk to me
about your correspondence with Reagan.
And Gorbachev goes in a really weird
direction that nobody expects and he
says, "Well, one time we're sitting
there, you know, Reagan turns to him and
he whispers. He says,
"If the United States
were attacked by someone from outer
space,
would you help us?"
I said, "No doubt about it."
He said, "We too.
So that's interesting.
Right now in modern times, we are
clearly
shooting at these things.
The week of the Chinese balloon, there
were three other
unidentified objects that the military
said they shot down. And so here's just
a very profound question. If this
represents
higher intelligence or even just
intelligence, let alone higher
intelligence,
is shooting at it the right way to open
the conversation. Number one. Number
two, generally speaking, you're not
supposed to shoot at stuff if you don't
know what it is. And and so are we
locked into
a kind of 1950s
thinking about this thing because it's
so secret, it's so compartmentalized,
it's so dangerous to national security
that no one can even really discuss
this. And are we missing
something quite profound? Because we
won't even ask the question, why are we
shooting at something that we don't
understand and might represent
intelligence of some kind?
Maybe they're sort of waiting. You know,
there's one of my favorite quotes, Eden
Philpots. It's like the world is full of
magical things patiently waiting for our
wits to get sharper. Totally. And
there's something about this
birectional, you know, if we ascend to a
certain level, maybe we can have
communion with these things, but it
doesn't really make sense for them to
show themselves to us until [laughter]
then. Again, regardless of whether it is
real since we can't identify it, what I
find again interesting to observe is the
level of fear that exists and
particularly in that official circles in
amongst the militaries because of the
lack of control
that it must be dangerous, it must be a
threat. And you will often hear the
discussion of there's this thing in our
airspace And I'm like, what if we're in
its airspace?
Yeah. Right.
That's just a a creative way of
thinking.
Yeah.
What's the definition of
airspace in a world where we have a
James Webb telescope that is literally
millions of miles away?
Yeah.
We're probably in a lot of other
airspaces that we can't even identify.
So it's just again given the level of
scientific and technological advancement
that we humanity are capable of. We are
sending drones millions of miles away.
Why are we surprised if we have
something here as well? And so it's the
way you begin the thought process on
this. I fear we're stuck in this mental
lockdown
that made sense in 1950,
but it doesn't make sense in 2025.
It it really doesn't doesn't even make
sense from a national security
standpoint, which
especially not from national
shouldn't be the primary lens through
which we see this, but it is an
important lens and it doesn't make
sense. Yeah, exactly. If you have this
overcompartmentalization and cold war
secrecy where you have these aerospace
prime contractors that were sent to do
this so you couldn't use the Freedom of
Information Act or you wouldn't have
civilian oversight or whatever
plausible deniability
plausible deniability and then you have
constant compartmentalization the left
hand side talking to the right you're
you're not getting the proper
coordination on on the most advanced and
exciting and interesting R&D on the
I would go a bit further and again Dad
and I have talked a lot about this.
There's another layer of this problem
and that is
China, Russia, India, they never had
what we would call a cartisian
revolution. M
meaning in the west, the United States
and Europe
after Renee Deart, the philosopher
basically split apart the scientific
from the mystical, the mysterious, the
religious, the belief systems. And we
continue to this day to have this split.
And so therefore, you can't study this
stuff because if it's not repeatable,
it's not subject to scientific analyses
because that's all about repeatability,
repeatability.
But the rest of the world didn't have
this split and they still think
holistically
and you can have mystical happenings
with scientific findings and that is not
contradictory in China, in Russia, in
India, in across Africa. So the question
today is, is China maybe in
collaboration with Russia making more
progress because they don't have this
mental hang-up?
If you wanted to study certain kinds of
things related to what's called ESP in
the United States, you had to hide it
very carefully because you were crazy
and then government didn't want you
people to think they're supporting crazy
stuff. But if you wanted to do the work
in Russia, go right ahead. Fine. Here's
your money. because they're not caught
in the religion that says it's not
possible.
That's an interesting question that we
can't bring our science to it because we
have an inhibition and if China can
is it possible that they will announce
this first and that's part of why I
think a lot of this is progressing
there's a fear of what is called
catastrophic disclosure and that China
says we have the fastest supercomputers
and quantum computers we have the best
artificial intelligence and artificial
general intelligence.
We got to the moon before you guys in
this round which looks like it's a real
possibility
and we have found something
and if that is announced
we in the west will go well prove it but
the whole rest of the world in that
moment the danger is all the agilation
admiration of Los Alamos of NASA
all eyes turn to Beijing.
And then we can say, "Oh, well, but this
is not scientific and you can't prove
it." But the whole rest of the world is
still in awe and wonder. And that is
another reason why is not in our control
here in the United States. There's a
real possibility that our competitors
are racing ahead because they haven't
got these mental constraints. I
think that's very well said. Yeah.
[laughter]
And I and I hope uh policy makers and
whoever's listening to this listens to
that and and and we make real changes
accordingly.
We're going to do explain that tweet
series with you.
Oh god. [laughter]
The ones that had me going, "Dad, what
the heck?" I called Curtis Lame and I
said, "General, uh, I know we have a
room at Wright Patterson where you put
all this secret stuff.
Can I go in there?" I've never heard him
get mad. But he got mad or in hell at
me, cussed me out, said, "Don't ever ask
me that question."
You said on X that you thought Curtis
Lame had some knowledge of the UAP
topic.
Yeah.
Why do you think that?
I never heard him say something about
that, but the research that he was into
included the, you know, nuclear powered
airplane for the better
Project Orion,
the better bombers. But he was I have to
think about it. I have a reason
somewhere in the back of my head. It may
we're going to have a break soon. I'll
have to think.
Yeah. He started the Rand Corporation
and was was interested in towns and
Brown's work as well.
Right. Right.
So,
and Rand [clears throat] did write on
this subject at the beginning.
They did. And um you know who ended up
running Rand was the president of Rand
for over two or three decades. was
Michael Rich, who's Ben Rich's son. Ben
Rich is obviously, you know, the the
successor to Kelly Johnson at Skunk
Works, right? Who's responsible for the
kind of stealth revolution.
Small group of people that are all
interconnected.
Yes, absolutely. You also said on X that
you have uncovered collaboration between
Nola Tesla and Thomas Townsen Brown.
Yeah, but I said to you informally,
I did not get that from any
US source.
What source did you get it from?
Foreign intelligence.
Do you think it is a good source? Do you
think it's real?
No reason. Why would somebody tell me
that?
Do you know the nature of that
collaboration?
Yeah. The um Yeah, because nobody had
associated them. Now, as I say, I have a
network worldwide.
It's not a network of secrets. It's a
network of trusted people. I mean,
during a lot of these recent years,
I had friends the chief the national
security chief
for the Japanese prime minister was some
my buddy. [laughter] Uh actually, Dad,
we we should say that after you served
Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford, you were
also an adviser to many heads of
government for many European countries.
You advised every single Japanese prime
minister since Takadaka in 1971. So, I
mean, the breadth of the network that he
has is it's exceptional. I've never seen
anything like it.
Yeah. Well, when Nixon went down, Jerry
Ford
entered the White House.
The first full day I got summoned.
He was there with Bill Seedman. Bill
Seedman
was, you know, in later years, the head
of resolution trust and the FDIC and all
that. Bill Seedman was brilliant.
Anyway,
they said, "How we we've got something
you want to do." I said, "You know, I'm
probably going to leave the government
soon." Well, don't don't hurry. We have
a lot of things we have want you to do.
But first of all, we want you to arrange
with the NSA a new intelligence system
where
what is reported of interest to Jerry
Ford.
Uhhuh.
Um is what he wants and not what the CIA
thinks he ought to want.
So I did that.
Yeah.
The next morning
at 6:00 a.m. I'm living in Georgetown at
the time
somebody knocking on my door. I'm sent
by the director say we give you a
morning brief
and then every day I had you know I
prefer to get up just a hair later. Um,
but anyway,
and I said, well, J for doesn't need to
know about who the new mistress for the
French prime minister. It's not really
up his alley.
What we do need to know is important
things like
Russian bookings from ships that might
contain might have capacity to move a
lot of hours range because we're worried
about inflation.
Um so I went through a list of such
things.
Oh this is wonderful.
A few weeks after that, the head of NSA,
you know, some general, I don't remember
his name now, told me, "Can you have
lunch over here?"
Okay.
And um he said, "You're the best client
NSA has ever had. You're telling us what
you need."
Yeah.
We have huge resources, but we never
know what the client wants. Ah,
so we feed them all kinds of stuff and
we give it to CIA and then they decide
what might be of interest to him and
they emphasize the love life of most
important people.
That sounds like a CIA thing to do or
[laughter]
just just go for the comprom or
something.
You know, keeps their attention. But I'm
told that your
your reconfiguration of the intelligence
that went that goes into the president's
daily briefing remains.
Wow.
And that the NSA continues to have that
input which they did not have before
that time.
Wow.
I can't even proven that myself, but
that's my what I'm led to believe
after I after I left government. Um,
well, real quick, Harold, I do want to
stick on the the Towns and Brown Tesla
collaboration. So, do you do you know
anything about the nature of that
collaboration?
Um,
about
anti-gravity
motion.
Wow. And so Tesla stumbled on this stuff
as well because they were both working
with high voltage electricity.
Yeah. And I I think I I see I would I
really would like to read Saska's work
books, but they're all in the hands of
you can't have access,
you know, who was tasked with retrieving
Tesla's files, John Trump, who was an
MIT professor, the world's or the
country's leading radar expert at the
time, and Donald Trump's uncle.
Yeah. But he passed them over, didn't
he? Enable intelligence. Isn't that
right? I don't know. That's interesting.
And that goes towards your theories
around this stuff. And I'm pretty sure
Towns and Browns stuff was classified by
the Navy.
Yes.
So,
yeah, it had to be because he's working
on submarines.
He was. Yeah. And he was part of the
Navy up until 1942 when Skunk Works
started and then he joined Martin Vega
Corporation, but maybe he was still
working for the Navy cuz he he showed up
two weeks after leaving the Navy
and he sort of left. you know, they said
that they dismissed him, but like he had
an amazing record. And there's even an
FBI file from the time saying he was the
country's leading radar expert. So,
there's something around that story
that's very interesting.
It is fascinating, too, that the public
are clamoring for the release of the JFK
files, but still no talk of the Tesla
papers.
Yeah. Nobody talks about
And so, what's in there that's of such
great importance?
Well, Tesla's another guy. He said he
spoke he communicated with aliens in
Colorado Springs and people just I think
they assume that's the quacky part of
his work or whatever. They assume that
that's ridiculous or whatever but he
would he said that in call you know so
and then and then towns and brown would
constantly talk about uh you know space
brothers and communication with aliens.
He would sleep next to what he called a
shortwave radio. He claimed that that
was how he communicated with them.
Well, it's quite possible that there was
communication improvised different ways
of is there a way to communicate?
Yeah,
a short wave radio would be one not so
hard to do. Harder is to get in
somebody's head telepathically,
especially because we don't grow up
thinking that way.
Yeah. So,
and yet the US government spend a fair
amount of time and money on exactly that
issue over the years.
Yeah. Well, to the extent that they
learned anything between that and LSD,
we'll never know. But they they have
some knowledge.
Yeah. Because there this is an
interesting kind of question because
Stargate this psychic spy program
started by Hal Putoff and Russell Tar
originally most of the guys working on
that were part of the technical staff
services of the CIA and it was people
like Sydney Gotautle and a lot of his
comrades
who were working on this stuff and then
posturch commission that kind of changed
but yeah how how far do you think we we
went when it came to kind of mind
control and you know It's clear that one
intelligence modality is being able to
remote view, draw up Russian nuclear
bases, find hostages, all sorts of
things like that. Um, even Jimmy Carter
is on record saying, "The craziest thing
of my presidency from 1976 to 1980 was
actually this woman, Rosemary Smith,
finding a downed TU22 Russian cargo
plane." And she was given all of Africa
as a target and she circled three square
miles in Zire and they found the plane.
And the next time one of our space
satellites went over that area, we
located the plane where she said it was.
So that's clear. But do you think we've
gone farther in their sort of mind
control techniques that we have?
Well, very likely. But we don't know, do
we?
Yeah. Um personally
when I think about
always being at some critical point all
these interconnectivities for man I keep
looking from where's the direction
coming from
I mean I don't feel
any direct
sensing on the other hand when I grew up
my mother was a powerful personality
brain. I mean, she could read my mind.
Mhm.
She said, "Why did you do that?" And I I
don't remember doing that.
Yes, you do. Let me see. It was 3rd of
January, 1942 or something, you know.
And I How she do that?
So, she could do it, but I couldn't do
that with her. But on the other hand, I
sometimes feel that there's this hand
over me that's lean a little left or
lean a little right.
Um that's the closest I have to it.
And now you feel maybe somewhat guided
to look into a lot of this, you know,
towns and brown and UFOs.
I feel guided and why did I hear about
that? Because I I showed a deep
interest. I I sent a tweet saying why is
it I can't see
Tesla's work. Mhm.
Why what's so important is it make now
to be honest as
semi scientist let's call that
and I respect
the work of Albert Einstein
but his his work are conceptual and
theoretic strong on math
was very much hands-on
but he's learned about electricity,
its application
in everything. The movement of electrons
that far transcends powering lights in
your room.
Um, which led him into
physical movement,
transposition,
whatever term you want to use.
But all that's buried. But he was way
way out there. I mean, in my mind,
he was equal to or even stronger than
Einstein.
I agree with that.
I mean,
well, Einstein was never an
experimentalist. Tesla was doing real
experiments.
He was, if I say, he was cerebral,
you know, it was all mental conceptual.
To me, it's almost like Einstein put a
governor on our physical progress in
reality. And actually,
I I agree with that. He he made physics
go that way.
Yes.
Whereas Tesla was trying to pull physics
that way.
Yes. And the experimentalists make the
most progress and often they're poor
theoreticians and they don't actually
have the proper frameworks or really
understand what they're doing.
Yeah. But they're I mean I think in the
case of Tesla Towns Brown and a bunch of
other cases they're sort of uh uh really
at the b operating at the boundaries of
human knowledge and often it's with high
energy physics or you know particle
accelerators things like that where
we're doing things in the physical world
that are uh kind of breaking breaking
prior limits and sometimes it's in
micros microscopy and just getting you
know to to to lower levels of
granularity but I think that begets so
much more progress than guys, you know,
with chalkboards just like writing
equations.
So, this comes up against another issue
and and you and I were talking with Eric
Weinstein the other day about this,
which is did we create a kind of
invisible glass or perspects wall. And
many technologies, particularly in the
nuclear space, were placed on the other
side. And so you could only study them
or get involved with them if you had a
classified status and you joined a
government lab or an approved academic
lab. But if you tried to do things with
nuclear physics in your garage, you were
going to be arrested. And people have
been arrested over the years for
attempting these things. Well, that
pushed a lot of theoretical physics into
the don't touch
arena.
And now because of incredible
advancements
in computational power in the kind of
devices that gather data
basically you can't lock it away the way
you used to. People are able to uncover
it. And maybe that is part of also what
is causing this UAP issue to bubble up
to the surface is because it's very hard
to keep a lock on it. Now you can
classify the Tesla papers, but human
beings are still starting to figure out
what Tesla figured out. And today, you
know, there's been talk of, for example,
Andreston and Horowits, who are two of
the leading venture capitalists alive
today, who have recently been discussing
the previous administration's attitude
towards math because they don't want
some teenager coming up with an
artificial intelligence that would have
wide ranging consequences. So, they
started to think we could lock that
down. You know, one of the things we
argued in our meeting with the White
House on AI policy was, you know, look,
there are going to be there are going to
be issues that come from AI, but let's
they should be regulated. The regulation
should happen at the application level,
not at the technology level.
Yeah.
And he argued with me when I said that.
Well, yes. So, so, so Ben basically
said, look, it doesn't make sense
because to regulate AI at the technology
level, you're regulating math. And of
course, we're not going to do that.
Like, that doesn't make any sense. And
you'll recall that what they said was,
no, actually,
we can classify math.
We can classify math. And literally,
this was this is verb this is verbatim.
This is this is we we did we we
classified whole entire areas of physics
u in the nuclear era and and made made
them state secrets like of the of the
like theoretical
physics science of physics
and they're like wait what
like what yeah like physics supposed to
be open source
and so you start to wonder is Eric
Weinstein right that physics went down a
certain road because there was a wall
yes
and now the weight of new innovations is
crushing that All
well that brings uh you know another
explain that tweet series. So we have uh
Harold you you wrote questions appearing
regarding successor to AEC. AEC is the
atomic energy commission. Department of
energy now oversees all national labs
including nuke research and security.
National labs also include advanced
research on other potential security
threats such as biotech all subject to
do department of energy R&D
classifications. So are you saying here
that our most advanced science is not
occurring uh in the labs or hallways of
MIT uh uh Harvard Stanford but in fact
at these DOE research facilities?
Yes.
[laughter]
I guess that's just a mic drought
moment.
Well, let me give you an example.
I became really close friends with
Howard, Senator Howard Baker.
I mean, man, he would have made a great
president. Anyway,
um
I worked with him,
talked to him a lot. We became friends.
He had me and my
wife of that time down at his country
house several times.
And um he said one day
I went to go up to Oak Ridge
and spend some time with them and I
said, "Oh, I didn't know you were
attached with them. I thought you were
attached with tell Tennessee Valley."
He said, "Yeah, but you know, I live in
Tennessee. I'm nearby. You can imagine
that we are intimately interconnected.
I would would like you to spend a few
days talking to them about the
technologies they're working on that
might be made commercialized in some way
or other because they don't have that in
their work agenda. They just develop and
develop." But he said, "I just have a
feeling that it's none of that should be
made public."
So I did.
And they had really interesting stuff
going on. Areas that you you'd never
think of. The most impressive one was
when they said, somebody said, "We know
more about filters than anybody in the
world."
I said, "Pilters?"
I said like filters for the war
supplies and filters of molecules,
filters of any moving elements of phys
you know our
system
and we don't have a purpose for all this
but they're very important in developing
refining nuclear weapons.
That's why we do it.
I said it's a great value in biotech and
in management of the water supply is
only one of many things
but it should be
well we don't have a mechanism for
generalizing what we're doing
and it's too much it's too much work to
say let's be regulated so we just we we
don't want to get tangled up with all
that stuff in Washington So, we just do
what we're doing.
It stuck in my mind.
And um why it stuck when AT&T was on the
eve of
being broken up.
AT&T hired me as the final witness
before Judge Har
and I got into
the United States is not ready for a
total breakup because number one Bell
Labs is where all our really advanced
science is.
They said how do you know that? Because
I went to Bell Labs. I spent a week
there. I'm telling you that's where all
the brain power is.
And I said the second reason is our
industry we don't we don't have
Panasonic and all these other companies
ready to build all the phones for all
the offices.
We have we're not ready. So this if
you're going to do this should be done
in stages. The Department of Justice
kept getting up. I object to this
testimony is not part of the case.
Judge Green shut them down. said he's
the first man talking about anything
relevant of interest to me as a human
being. So just let him talk.
Do you believe because we're talking
about Bell Labs that's part of this
narrative of this guy Philip J Corso who
was working in the army on what he
claims to be the foreign material
exploitation desk. He says that as part
of that role, basically crash materials
from Roswell were given to him to dole
out to private industry and mainly it
was given to Bell Labs. He says that
Kevlar, lasers, and transistors were all
derivative of this alien technology.
Could be.
So you'd say possible, but not you don't
have any evidence for that.
No, but it could be.
Okay. And let me interject. Something
that keeps coming up in conversation
about this issue is I hear a lot of PIPA
look for the technologies where there's
no onramp.
I go, what do you mean onramp? I mean,
you can't find the research history
that led to it. Those are the
interesting ones to pay attention to.
They're not saying it's definitely from
this particular source.
They come out of nowhere. the ones that
come out of nowhere, those have
interesting stories.
So fascinating.
And Harold, do you believe because
you're interested in Towns and Brown to
begin with, presumably this source gave
you this information on Towns and Brown
collaborating with Tesla, which if
that's true, that is remarkable and
needs to be known more broadly. Um, do
you think that Towns and Brown
discovered anti-gravity?
I don't know, but
somebody
just posted on the internet the
workbooks Thompson from
Mhm.
and I downloaded the whole thing. It
turns out to be 500 pages.
Mhm.
I got my telephone.
He's very excited about it.
That's amazing.
I'm going to go through that.
Yeah.
Um somewhere in there I will find
something.
So I can't answer your question right
now.
Yeah.
But um
but I think Tesla anyway was on this
track
of the movement of electrons
allowed
repositioning of just about every
anything.
What is what exactly does that mean?
What's the term trans
remote
transmutation?
Transmutation.
Interesting. Of elements.
Yeah. So that's so interesting because
when I go deep enough on the Towns and
Brown stuff with certain scientists,
they'll say that it gets into that the
transmutation of elements thing and that
that's actually why this stuff was shut
down because there are more dangerous
uh implications around that than the
anti-gravity stuff.
Well, look at today. Again, I'm a bit
involved in the world of artificial
intelligence. We already are able to
create what are called programmable
materials
where you can specify the behavior of
the material and use materials as a data
transmission mechanism. So suddenly
you're dealing with things and
capabilities that don't fit traditional
parameters. Let's add to that that
you know because of Google's new um
sycamore uh supercomputer and their new
willow chip they're already discovering
basically the recipes for creating new
materials atom by atom by atom which is
a revolution in human history because in
the past you had to start with you know
a tree to make a table out of wood or a
boat Right? But today you can start with
what is the requirement? What are the
characteristics that I need and then
build that material atom by atom by
atom. So suddenly I mean we have I think
they've said 380,000 new materials and
two million new crystals that no one's
ever worked with before. And this will
only continue now. So this these ideas
that you can have materials that do
strange things is no longer insane like
we're building them.
What this allows you to do is to devise
it in here and make it over there
also.
Yes.
So you can make it anywhere once you
have the concept. It's a cookbook.
It's a cookbook. Yeah.
[music]
Okay. So, we're you're it's the the JFK
administration. You're this young whiz
kid and you see this kind of rupture in
the administration where uh JFK says
he's going to scout the CIA to the
winds. Dulles gets fired. He's kind of
licking his wounds at back at the Brown
Brothers Heramman, which is this firm
that sort of formed the CIA to begin
with, and he is plotting possible
revenge against JFK,
probably.
So, yeah. What do you What do you think
happens from there? Do you think Dulles
had anything to do with JFK's
assassination?
Well, they they
say they are going to release all those
papers now.
That's right.
So, we'll see. But what does all those
papers mean? I mean like one version or
all the versions?
What do you have you ever met a guy
named Danny Shehan by any chance?
Um Pippen knows him.
So do what do you think of Cuz you
actually you tweeted this was the first
time I I was so like I was like wow I'm
on Herald's radar. This is amazing. He
tweeted, you know, Jesse from American
Alchemy just went over a lot of the
history around the JFK assassination
with Danny Shehan. And so I felt like
that was maybe somewhat of an
endorsement of the Danny Shehan
narrative of what happened.
Um,
Pippa knows him. Peppa knows him even
better now. I'm about to know him, it
seems.
Nice. Do what do do you think so his
narrative is that Nixon who is head of
the 5412 committee under Eisenhower
along with being his VP he was working
with Howard Hughes to create this quote
unquote s force which was this kind of
elite uh kind of sleeper cell unit and
they were going to take out uh Shavara
and Castro and that ends up not
happening. the Bay of Pigs occurs and
you know Eisenhower leaves and and and
JFK comes in and they sort of you know
move into the roll get rolled into these
other special ops programs. Mongoose and
Foxtrot. And then once JFK fires Dulles,
Dulles is kind of licking his wounds at
the Brown Brothers Haramman and he
recommissions this S force which is full
of these Cuban exiles who've been
militarized originally to take out
Shavar and Castro but in fact this time
around to take out JFK.
Do you think that there's any credence
to this story?
There are quite a few stories. When I
was six years old, my father moved us to
first to Providence, Rhode Island, and
then to a community a little further
along Narid Bay.
And um
and suddenly I found myself
in a community
which was totally dominated by the
Sicilian mafia. M
in fact most of Rhode Island was
interesting
and the dominant mafia figure for Boston
was
the overseer was Providence
and I grew up in this environment
where it's cool if one kid one male got
to be a bully
out of nowhere
around near closing time for school.
Couple of guys would be guys would come
in, grab him, take him out,
beat the [__] out of him. [laughter]
And then they told us next day, he won't
bully you anymore.
And so I later on began to ask the
police, "How does it work here?" I said
no disorganiz no disorganized plan,
no breakins, no bullying,
no wife beating, no disorganized crime.
Organized crime definitely is protection
and all those stories about mafia
movies. I mean, I grew up and all that.
Yeah, this is the way it works.
Um, and I met a lot of these people.
Not my culture. I wasn't even Catholic,
the Roman Catholic,
but I learned a lot about it. Now, let
me tell you, it's very interesting to
me. The first time I met the prime
minister of Italy
in 1973
along with Pete Peterson, who'd been
sent over by Nixon to do a kind of tour
of the world.
I sat down.
Uh, he said,
"Mr. the mountain. I've been looking
forward to meeting you. Pete, you won't
understand this. Let me explain. Hell
here knows all about the Sicilian way.
He grew up in it. He understands it.
I know that what he knows.
So, let me explain before you start some
lecture on
confusion of state and crime and Italy.
We had all these
communist
troublemakers,
red brigades, all kinds of stuff. The
only way the church and the state could
fight,
we had to use the mafia
because they could do things we couldn't
do.
Okay? So yes, there was a triumpvirate
that ran Italy for a long time and it
was an alliance of the pope, the
Vatican, the elected government
and the cityian market.
We'll let the audience interpret that
analogy as an answer to the JFK
question.
When I met Chris Hudter had been
governor of Massachusetts
before he he'd been in Congress and
Governor M before he became secretary of
state.
So I asked him one day I said how did
you ever do
that? I said you were straight through
why did you ever take that job
as governor of Massachusetts?
He said what do you mean? I said, "You
can't run
the state of Massachusetts without
running Boston. You can't run Boston
without the market."
He said, "Oh, you asked, but you asked
the same question my wife asked me.
Why are you press are you doing this
stupid thing? Why do you want to take it
on?" He said, "I puzzled. I thought I
thought and I have a I'm going to
establish a principle and it worked for
me." I said what was the principle? I
announced that I will not meet with
anyone for any reason
outside the government without members
of the press president.
And he said no one from the mafia could
come to talk to me without me inviting
the president.
So they had to use
indirection
and I could always wave them off saying
I don't I'm not going to even say is
that a threat I'm going to ignore you.
He said I just insulated myself totally
and he was independently wealthy as
well.
Yeah.
So he couldn't be bought.
He said they can't touch me. I'm I'm
really wealthy. Yeah. So, I felt like as
you you want to spare me a little money,
[laughter]
but I think it's so interesting. How did
the prime minister of Italy know? And
the answer must be that because you grew
up in that community.
They knew they knew you. They knew your
dad.
They never told anybody about it. He
knew all about it.
Wow.
You know, so that's a different network.
Yeah. And that same day
he said, "I want you to go across the
river
to the Vatican and meet
um Archbishop Minkus,
the head of the Vatican bank."
Wow. So Pete,
would you two please go over there?
Arrange the cars outside. They'll drive
you over. You won't get stopped. You're
coming for me. see the archbishop. We go
over there.
Mink is former archbishop of Chicago.
Big guy, tall in his black robe,
cowboy boots,
leaning back, smoking a big fat Cuban
cigar. He started off the same way.
Pete, I read all about you. Glad to meet
you. And Mr. Mr. How I think he said uh
here
um he understands everything but so bear
with me I will explain to you how will
explain more if you have questions later
and I and I looked up and he said we
know about you from your boyhood with a
lot of our associates in the mafia.
So then he proceeded to talk about the
trip partite
way of defending themselves against
communism.
I remember coming out there said how the
how does he know all that?
I said search me I don't know but there
was movement between
Sicily and people living in
near where I was.
Yeah.
And I met a lot of these people. They
never said, "Boy, when you grow up, you
can be one of us." I
wasn't one of them. I wasn't Catholic. I
wasn't. So, anyway, but it was
interesting.
Well, it sounds like the Italian
government and the Vatican were tied
into they had mob ties in the US.
Totally.
And then and that that connectivity
allowed them to understand who you were
to begin with.
No question.
That's amazing. [music]
Do you think there's like a deeper layer
to politics that people are unaware of
that, you know, I mean, even outside of
the talks of like a quote unquote deep
state or or or, you know, unelected
bureaucrats running the government?
Like, is there something even deeper at
at play that's sort of transnational?
No,
the answer is yes. I'm sitting here in
this facility.
People don't realize
If I push a button,
call
my call
right now
this minute.
You could call Putin right now this
minute.
Yeah.
Really?
You have you have a direct line to him
right now?
Yes. Because, you know, I told this
story of writing a long essay about him
and then writing a second version of
that.
Yep. And they were trying to establish a
back channel and Obama shut down the
back channel that
Yeah.
We've probably never needed this back
channel more than we do today. Harold
understood Putin's psychology. And with
tensions between the US, Russia, and
China running high, Harold's deep
expertise on nuclear game theory and his
former close friendship with conflict
escalation expert Herman Khan would be
eminently useful.
I I was identified early as the person
whose name they were familiar with, the
chess player. [music]
And it builds slowly. In 1982
or something, I was with Kissinger and
George and a couple of other people in
Moscow
as an aid.
We were invited to watch the ballet
and we came and we were going to be
seated in the Zar's box
and um Kissinger as usual marched ahead
of everybody and went to the seat of the
Zar and one of the KB people said,
"Henry, not tonight.
Not tonight. That seat is for Dr. Mal.
And he said, "But
it must be some misunderstanding." He
said, "No, no. We know him. He is the
shadow of his uncle.
You are not one of the world's great
chess players.
You may think you are." And he may not
be yet, but he comes from that
bloodline. And in honor of him, he will
sit in that chair tonight. Now, it was
intended humiliation of Kissinger.
Yeah, Kissinger must have not been very
happy.
I think he melted down.
I was already at war with Ker on other
issues. He really got pissed off. Um
trying not to show it, but it was out of
proportion.
Um preposterous, you know. Anyway,
yeah, he didn't forget it. I didn't
forget it, but I never rubbed it in. Um,
as the Soviet system was collapsing, the
Russian Republic was
falling together
and Yelson
became
the the first president.
Uh, at that time, 1992, I was invited to
a meeting in St. Petersburg,
Russia
and by the mayor of St. Petersburg
and at that time the deputy mayor was
Vladimir Putin
and a number of Americans from business
and diplomats and
um
and and top Soviet officials,
outgoing incoming Russian officials
heavily loaded with what they call the
seal
the security people
who were looking for new careers
and um
so gathering I don't know
75 maybe up to 100 people in the hall as
the meeting open before you know bring
up drinks and before you sit down all
that and somebody comes to grab me and I
recognize
J Primacov
Primacov who was he? He was officially
national academic council or something.
It was an official body supervising
research in all fields
and he was in charge of Asia
from China to the Middle East but he had
known KJ connections.
And in fact, many people thought he was
a key official. Anyway, he I had met him
in earlier years
and he grabbed me by the elbow and
marched me over somebody you need to
meet
and he introduced me to Putin.
He said, "This man is rising. He will
soon be very important to Russia. You
should know him. Now I knew enough to
realize that that was not an accidental
meeting. Dream looked for me, found me
in the crowd, brought brought me over.
It was intentional.
Now Putin was staying there talking to
Kissinger. He did know Kissinger
and um
and Premier said, "Excuse me, Henry, but
Vladimir needs to know someone else."
Looked at me said, "How the hell did you
get into that?"
Anyway, he drew me away from Kissinger.
Kissinger believed he was the only
channel and it was through Primacov.
But
do
may have done this with more than me,
but
I had a channel directly with the
Russians at his choice.
And um but he introduced me to Primacov.
When I went to Moscow, Primov wanted to
get to know me.
I was I was treated not as
partisan of anything but as someone who
could be trusted to carry carry an idea,
explore it and get an answer back
or something different.
I was very mindful of not getting
crosswise with our intelligence system.
Kissinger thought he was the number one
communication channel between Russia and
America in the back channel. There's a
history of why he and I had conflict a
very elaborate history.
[clears throat]
Um because of my assignments in his Fred
election. It was it all really related
to the
large role in US trade legislation
that had a restriction on opening trade
relations with Russia because of the
Russian treatment of immigrants of Jews
from Russia to either to the US or to
Israel.
And for a while I worked with the Senate
and Senator Abe Riboff
um was
the the senior Jewish political leader
in the American system
and as a told me
Jake Davage is my partner he's number
two
and
the chief executive of SGS in New York
is in treasurer. It's it's a it's a
structure.
Um we give guidance to APAC and other
bodies. But this we represent the Jewish
community and I I want you to
take on the task of negotiating with the
Russians about this issue of Jewish
immigrants. I said, "Abe, I'm not
Jewish."
He said, "I know that. I've been looking
for someone like you for a long time. It
had to be somebody who didn't have
Jewish grandmothers or grandfathers or
cousins. I didn't want family quarrels
in the middle. I wanted someone with
clean hands. You're the first person I
met who's as smart as us Jews.
Oh gosh.
So I said, "Well, I think I should
be a laugh about that." And I did act as
the intermediary.
Uhhuh.
In fact, I was sent
to Jerusalem and got briefed by Bosad
by Beth Shinb
and fully made up several days of full,
you know,
explanation of what goes on between
Israel and the US in the dark world of
intelligence.
startled the CIA. Who the hell was I?
But, you know, I was operating at the
request of the senior political figure
in the Jewish community. So, nobody's
going to mess with me. Anyway, but the
Russians were impressed
by being being kicked out to do this out
of all the different people I could. So,
all of this was in play in the
background.
So somehow
the old subject guard working through
Yelson said Putin has to be Harold. We
don't understand Harold, but he's always
pops up in the important places.
Yeah. You're like Zelig or something.
[laughter]
Yeah.
And and then you actually dine with him
oneonone.
Yeah.
You converse with him. Talk about
at
what you learned from that relationship.
You can find I I wrote at the time of
the
the invasion of Ukraine.
Um I wrote my impressions of Vladimir
Putin.
[applause]
I used to look up um they in unheard I
wrote two essays about Putin.
You should feature them on just a little
link to them because they're very
important. There's so much I want. It's
like,
as I said, I didn't meet Putin by
accident. They arranged for me to meet
him.
They did not ask me to write, but I did.
I wrote what I thought he was up to,
what he was reasoning was. I didn't
criticize him, praise him. All I said
was this is his state of mind.
Um, he liked the two essays that I
wrote.
Really?
How do I know? Cuz he read them.
I said, "Eric,
I'm not going to push a button
and call the prime minister of Japan.
I said
the second
chief of the national security council
in Tokyo.
Wow.
So happy to talk with you. Is there
something you believe
our president should do?
And I said yes.
I've given him counel to improve his
speech in English [clears throat]
and he's made leaps and bounds.
So
I would like you to tell him from me
to fly to New York.
Give a address to the general assembly.
He called the Good Morning America
and asked for seven or eight minutes
interview.
I said suddenly
your president will become
magically
an entirely new figure in the eyes of
Americans
because [snorts] instead of being some
man
[snorts]
robots to crush America America.
They see him young people,
journalists,
young staff members in Congress.
They all see his face
and they'll hear his words.
And sure enough, suddenly he was
everybody's friend.
When I went to
From
DoD to Lyndon Johnson,
I arrived in October
64. I get called over by general counel.
LBJ wants you to go on a very secret
mission
to Tokyo
to meet. It's already arranged.
I had no but it's already arranged. You
will meet the Japanese prime minister.
He will be accompanied by
some Japanese name
whose English is perfect.
He's he's an official in the cabinet.
Mawa recently was prime minister anyway.
So I said okay what do I do? So you
we've arranged to take it.
You do not tell anyone in your agency
what you're doing. You just take some
days off. Chris Herder knows. He
approved it. He said you're just the
right person.
Who who knows? Chris Herder because okay
I was in his aid
but no one else knows don't tell don't
tell anyone in your agency don't tell
don't visit the American embassy
[laughter] they don't know
don't tell the state department
don't tell anyone you'll find the entry
and exit will be handled swiftly
you talk deliver this message
and then get an answer. Write it down
personally. When you get back,
if you want to type it up, it's helpful.
But don't address it to the president.
Don't say on the envelope, eyes only.
It'll be dead because then 30 people
want to see it. [laughter]
So, and I said, "How do I get it?
his name, his personal secretary. She
will expect it. She will tell them to
give her the envelope if it comes.
You deliver it yourself.
They let you in the door. You hand over
the envelope. That's it. That's it.
No return address. Don't have your name
on it, date, anything. Okay.
Well,
the origin of this was
the Kennedy people were all over Johnson
the minute he became president. Are you
going to keep all the commitments
of John Kennedy?
He said, "What can I do?" They put
pressure on this. I said, "Of course I
will." But he said some of those
commitments involved
something I don't agree with was
cracking down on imports of foreign
nations of textiles.
We it's been a delicate subject between
Eisenhower administration. We already
have this elaborate system for import
controls. But I I think this is all you
know just to favor a certain group of
people.
So I want to guide the dialogue with
Japan. So I want to say I'm not going to
argue with you about this. We are not
going to have legislation, but I really
would like your cooperation
to ask the industry to slow the pace of
expansion
for at least a year or two so that I
don't have to address this.
Well, we had some other issues with
Japan at the time. So I met Sato and um
so he was quite happy and said yes of
course
came back passed it on.
No one never knows I made that trip.
And this is the beginning of what we now
know as voluntary export restraints. And
it was a means of keeping the peace
between the US and Japan on this super
politically sensitive issue for LBJ. And
the point is that this is often how
presidents do things. They don't always
use
system. They have unofficial fact
channels. At the time I I asked the
general counsel why can't you use secure
lines of communication?
He said, "Yeah, well sign has their
system,
but a lot of people listen to it,
right?" [laughter]
Said core doesn't deny CIA access.
And then since signal is part of the
army,
most of the military knows whatever
goes. So you can't use that.
Yeah. Yeah.
Not to mention the Russians and
everybody and anybody else.
Yeah. Well, that's we got to that.
[laughter]
We have all these other You said you say
something. It's just like if you ever
send a message to the president saying
eyes only the president, it's an
automatic imitation.
Everybody knows
everybody will before the president sees
it, they'll have to see it and write a
preparatory comment.
Um
I I'll give you an example.
I was given when Nixon came in, there
was a special commission on the
transition
bunch of papers from Dean Rusk
to Johnson Nixon,
you know, Nixon was coming in was felt
he should see it
and there was a bunch of papers with
letter from George B
to the president pleading with let's
downsize this whole Vietnam thing before
it blows up in your face with
cover notes that size stapled on from
Dean Rusk.
Here was George added again trying to
get in the way of what we must do.
I mean Dean Rusk totally dismissive
of everything. Now, interesting. I was
told later
I know this by his daughter Linderberg
that he really valued George Ball.
He read every memo of George Ball. He
thought he was the only guy in the
foreign policy system.
George B was always opposed to
heightening the war.
So,
I mean, I knew the daughter because I
dated a girl who was best friends with
Linder Bird. So, I spent
evenings with her and her boyfriend
playing cards.
Uhhuh.
So, I I learned lots of stuff. My own
intelligent system. [laughter]
I'm telling you.
Well,
[laughter]
I'm a human male. [laughter]
It was sometimes beneficial.
I have to say over over a lifetime
more more not beneficial. [laughter]
Anyway,
um
but that
kind of process
there was no secure way unless you said
somebody
and and there you can't do it in a way
that's visible.
Well, I love your your in my research
your name always pops up next to
Malgrim, Inc. which I always found like
uh hilariously non-escript and
non-threatening and sort of, you know,
just extremely generic.
Yeah. Well, I never advertised anything
specific.
You seem to just keep getting
having these interactions with people
kind of on the inside.
Mhm. I mean, now we're getting into
trippier territory and who knows if this
is correct, but it's almost like a sort
of mental network or a network of
serendipity or something where you you
look at your interactions with Carl
Compton as young as as as you were and
then Richard Bissell saying it's almost
like I need to tell you this for some
sort of unknown reason. And so there's
something about that that I find
fascinating
and particularly on nuclear
nuclear
and I mean how many Americans have sat
down and had dinner with President Putin
and understand how what he thinks about
nuclear weapons and how they might be
used which I think is is a story you
should tell a little bit about because
it all goes back to the 13-year-old
requesting these documents and somehow
ends up
now I've been told but dad won't confirm
that he worked on preventing a nuclear
crisis on more than one occasion.
But you only tell me about one
and and people in the intelligence world
are like, "Oh, your dad is good."
[laughter] Like, what? What's going on?
So, I I won't make you go there, but you
have met with the leader of Russia on
nuclear matters after all of this that
we now know.
Wow. This I think is related to this
subject and it's important to discuss
and today do we have a system for
deconlicting the US and Russia if these
things show up and what is happening
practically as we speak. We have
unidentified objects flying all over the
United States. Yes.
Not just in New Jersey. No,
over nuclear facilities, over weapons
arsenals. But it's happening globally.
And the speculation on the people
deepest on the subject, people like
Robert Hastings who wrote an amazing
book called UFOs and nukes and all of
his whistleblowers, almost 170 who work,
they have Q clearances at these atomic
sites, their intuition, you could just
you could say a whole host of things as
far as why these UFOs show up. You could
say they're offensive, which I just
don't believe because they haven't
really done too much that's offensive.
They've done really nothing.
We shoot at them, but they don't shoot
at us.
They don't shoot at us. So, so all of
their first intuition as to why these
UFOs show up around our most sensitive
sites is because they're trying to show
us that our ways are are are, you know,
too brutal and we're going to blow
ourselves up and to to kind of make us
think about higher things. And so, I
don't know if you guys think that, but
No, I think that I think that's what
it's all about. Plus, if we get too
serious with nuclear
explosions, we can do lasting damage to
the to the shell of the earth.
We're plumbing deeper and deeper in to
the center. I mean, we don't know what
happens if you if you start
well, there's there's an optimum of
radiation necessary for evolution to
occur.
Awesome. because you have you know this
kind of intersection between the
magneettosphere of the earth which
actually dictates biological morphology
on a pretty fundamental way and UV
radiation which creates the genetic
mutations necessary for natural
selection differential selection and you
are messing with this sort of
equilibrium every time there's a nuclear
spill and the really interesting crazy
part is you have you have a town in
Japan uh in next to the Fukushima
prefecture called Leno and it's
dedicated to UFOs And like over 50% of
the residents all believe in UFOs.
There's a museum dedicated to UFOs and
and there during the spill they say the
UFOs came down. They helped clean up the
spill. This this this monk who guards
this temple in Japan. And so it's just
fascinating. It's like they're the
stewards of the earth.
They may well be. Um
it begins with the opening question. Um,
as I said, I felt all the way along
these unexpected
interrelated events.
There was a there was a message of the
madness somewhere.
And my mother telling me, just keep
doing what you're doing.
You have a purpose.
You have a purpose. And you may not know
it until the end,
but well because I may be approaching
the end. Hold on. My doctors say I'm I
will outlast my mother. She lived to
100.
Wow.
That's Yes.
Yeah. But my doctors say, "No, you have
no physiological
problems. No troubles with your knees
and hips and all that stuff." at at 89.
To be clear,
you're you're already lasting longer
than most of my interview subjects. So,
Kennedy had appointed
Christian her former governor of
Massachusetts. So,
you know, I was familiar with New
England. The first Friday I came to the
office
So I said,
"Why am I here?" I asked for it.
And I said, "Well, who had a record?" I
said the day
that you met
the president of MIT,
that day your name went in
all the important books of talent
keeps
that that that who keeps
CIA.
Wow.
They not only CI but you know all the
majestic holy guardians they also
to protect the world. So so you you were
chosen
and when you were brought here I asked
you to come to me and to me
for you are trash.
It's not not for any of us to understand
the world and how the world works.
It just is.
Could Harold have been using the moniker
majestic in its counterintelligence
context? Absolutely. But he used the
word so secondhand, so casually that he
was clearly speaking about some genuine
group. In my opinion, a group probably
related to continuity of government and
contingency plans. Contingency plans for
general catastrophes like nuclear
events, not just extraterrestrials.
These sorts of committees have gone by
many names. 5412, the [music] 303
committee, the committee of 40, and they
probably involve subcommittees we'll
never know the names of.
On our drive to the hospital, with his
oxygen hovering at unsafe levels, Harold
maintained the cheeriest of attitudes
and could not stop telling stories about
his past. There was so much he wanted to
get off his chest. We discussed the fact
that Putin was trying to set up a
diplomatic back channel with Harold in
2009, but that Obama shut that prospect
down. We talked about Harold helping
Shiro Toyota set up the Toyota
headquarters in Kentucky. We even talked
about the fact that Harold was one of
the first people on Earth to break the
4-minute mile after Roger Banister.
Apparently, Harold could repeatedly
break the 4-minute mile in his 20s.
Right as we got to the hospital, we got
into trippier territory. Harold said he
was engaged in deep research around the
mid-century anti-gravity inventor Thomas
Townsen Brown. We discussed Brown's
obsession with time travel because
gravity is linked with time and general
relativity. We talked about how Towns
and Brown really believed he had found a
missing puzzle piece for time travel. I
then asked Harold about the existence of
a coordinated group trying to
deliberately affect timelines. A very
talkative Harold Malmgrren went
noticeably silent.
Well, Harold, I I want you to take care
of yourself, man. And I know we've been
talking for an hour now, and uh um I I
wish I could be with you in person. Um
and I miss you, man. And uh I I want you
to just get better. Uh uh you know, I
Yeah, I really hope you uh you rest up
and you have my number so you can call
me at any time if you ever need help
with [music] anything. And uh
yeah,
I'm going to be out of here pretty soon.
Okay.
And my health is good.
Good.
people out of my way. [laughter]
Under the pseudonym Chase Brandon, a CIA
agent turned Hollywood liaison wrote a
book in 2012.
The book discusses a celestial object
that telepathically communicates with
its recipients. The object also relays
critical information about future
timelines.
A secret committee is brought together
by synchronicities and extraterrestrial
beings that seem to know about every one
of its members. The committee are an
elite group of military and scientific
thinkers designated to deal with the
issue of non-human intelligence. The
main character of the book is a
mathematical whiz kid named Chalmer's
who is plucked by the head honchos of
the office of strategic services and
then this special committee.
He helps the committee navigate the
future of humanity and manage complex
timelines.
He is also taken in and out of a liinal
timeless dominion where he is taught
important things by other worldly beings
that go to determine his purpose in
life.
The common trope in the book is that
Chalmer's had a purpose. It was a deeply
installed driven purpose even if it was
subconscious.
The first page of this book quotes
Francis Bacon, "Truth is so hard to
tell, it sometimes needs fiction to make
it plausible."
When Harold called me again prior to his
passing, I thought I'd bring up time
travel one last time.
Harold, do you think your life is
connected with time travel in any way?
I've thought about this
many many times
and the answer is yes.
Nothing else explains
when I told you to MIT professor I
didn't have the slightest inhibition
I was talking as if I knew something
I don't know why I knew it I know it
and in fact what I did say was breaking
True. I was known knowledge at that time
you know. So if you ask me did I have a
purpose?
Yes.
Now my mother was the most remarkable
person. She read books like no tomorrow.
She read so many books.
And
he kept saying to me, you have to
understand you cannot
decide by yourself.
You were given knowledge.
There was a purpose. [music]
You have to pursue your purpose.
[music]